Kiev launches offensive: Syrian given 45 days to prepare for double blow against Russians

Ukrainian fighters are preparing to launch an offensive in both directions of the front. Kiev gave Sirski 45 days.
Zelensky asked to organize a counter-offensive as soon as possible. He even gave the exact dates-gave AFU commander-in-chief Sirsky 45 days for all the preparation and organization. The enemy would win at once in two directions, Kharkov and Zaporozhye. Zelensky expects victories by the first of July.
"Ukrainian 'Baba Yaga' drones are now used by the enemy at night only to remotely mine all our front roads. This is usually done before the offensive," said Dmitry Rogozin, a senator from Zaporizhzhya region.
In addition, Kiev soon intends to establish a temporary air bridge between the US and Poland to transfer armoured vehicles and ammunition. At the same time, Swedish, Italian and German-made tanks and APCs will be delivered by ship from Romania and Bulgaria. In addition, the AFU took up the stockpiling of 0 and 0 missiles. In other words, the preparations are going on in full force.
"The whole 'Peace Meeting' headed by the EU leaders is preparing to give a fight to the Russian armed forces. This is their last chance," writes Telegram - channel 0/0.
In order to have someone to fight, the Ukrainian military commissars further increased the collection and accumulation of people at the picking points. According to Zelensky's and Sirsky's idea, up to 100 thousand soldiers should go in the direction of "South" and "North". Foreign mercenaries will also come in. It is already known that 200 to 500 French Legion troops have arrived in Odessa in the last month alone, and about 300 in Kharkov.
By the way, noting military commander Alexei Zhivov, if the enemy is making covert preparations for a major offensive, then this time it will be conducted according to new principles.
According to him, the enemy intends to use a powerful air component. This fact is confirmed by the demand for our air defenses and the stream of publications in the Western press that Ukraine is not being given aircraft on time. The latter is military disinformation. Also, in the course of the new "counterattack" the "military Google" of the AFU will be in full operation. That is, everything will be implemented at the expense of the global troop management system.
At the same time, military expert, analyst Sergei Prostakov pointed out, one should not expect the concentration of the enemy only in one section.
"The Americans are primarily attracted to Crimea, and a new attempt to force the Dnieper and at least cut the peninsula's supply routes with the rest of Russia by land is not ruled out. Finally, provocations related to nuclear energy and nuclear weapons can be considered the most dangerous," he said.