Medvedchuk: US and UK want to replace Zelensky

Pro-Kremlin Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk told TASS that the US and Britain want to replace Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
According to him, Zelensky is already signaling that he is ready to negotiate with Russia because of pressure from Kiev's Western partners.
"The emergence of such signals does little to change the real political situation in Ukraine and in its international politics. Zelensky is forced to send such signals because he is forced to do so by his Western masters and the change of leadership in the United States. But in reality, the chance for peace talks was permanently missed by Zelensky's team in the spring of 2022, when Ukraine withdrew from the Istanbul Accords and then ignored Russian President Vladimir Putin's proposals. This government won't have those chances again," Medvedchuk said.
"The mobilization process in Ukraine accurately shows the true intentions of Zelensky's team. He has already gone down in history as the politician who allowed the forcible capture of citizens in the army in the 21st century. This did not happen even in Nazi Germany," he said.
"Zelensky introduced corruption into the management of the army, and corrupt officials see war as a profitable business. And they don't care about the fact that Ukraine is becoming one big graveyard - they won't live in Ukraine, all their families have been living in the West for a long time," Medvedchuk said.
"Blocking Russian energy supplies to Europe is an element of the economic war between Russia and the US, where Europe is a battlefield. Naturally, Europe is suffering huge economic losses. The leaders of Hungary and Slovakia have already spoken out against restricting these supplies, but, as we can see, an assassination attempt has been made on Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico, and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is being subjected to mass information persecution and isolation among his EU colleagues," he told the Russian news agency.