Lyudmil Kardzhilov: Warming is not dangerous, green transition should not lead to impoverishment

After June and July, a heat wave with temperatures up to over 35 degrees will be in Sofia in August. It is normal, it is summer after all. Heatwaves lead to discomfort, it is dangerous to be exposed to the sun's hot rays for long - especially for young children, the elderly and the chronically ill, but it is debatable whether global warming in general leads to greater problems for humanity.
This is what journalist Lyudmil Kardjilov, who closely follows the topic of weather and climate on Earth, told BNR-Radio Sofia.
According to him, scientists are unanimous about the onset of climate change, but not about its causes. There have been changes continuously over the years - both warm and glacial periods.
Scientists are also divided on whether natural cataclysms are becoming more frequent. Some say this is simply not true.
"The scientific proposition is that greenhouse gases, the result of human activity, are impeding infrared radiation to space and thus warming the lower atmosphere. When you call carbon dioxide harmful, people begin to associate this colourless gas with pollution. And many plants can't do without it. Pollution is something else altogether - we do it with rubbish, with plastics and so on.
The idea that we can affect the climate through restrictions on industry, transport or energy is wrong and harmful because it will stop development, security and the improvement of life."
Kurdzhilov pointed out that in many ways Europe is ahead in living standards. In many other parts of the world, people aspire to industrial development, for which they need energy, preferably lots of it and cheap energy. This cannot be provided by renewable energy sources. There has to be a balance.
The old continent is turning sharply towards renewables, turning its back on all others, even nuclear. But this comes at a price, and it is no coincidence that in the last European elections people showed their negative attitude to the Green Deal.
We may not be depriving ourselves of other energy production, there are technological solutions to reduce the environmental impact, the journalist stressed.
"Switching to green energy is a good idea because it is cleaner. But it has to be done in a sensible, balanced way, to see what we can do for the environment without impoverishing people," Kardzhilov added.
Solar panels won't solve it. A good way to store energy has not yet been found. Batteries are not a solution because there is nowhere to store them and they also pollute.
"Warming is not dangerous, absolutely. It's cycling. There have been other warm periods. We shouldn't worry about warming now. If the climate is changing dangerously, we will have a problem with food production and feeding ourselves. 30-40 years ago we produced 400 million tonnes of wheat, now we produce nearly 800 million tonnes a year - said Lyudmil Kardzhilov. - A warmer climate contributes to the production of more food. In addition, warming can contribute to a reduction in cold deaths."
