Rear: Shell prioritises profits over emissions cuts

The company's boss is cutting investment in green and increasing it in oil and gas in the name of greater profits for shareholders
Another alarm has gone off for a struggling green energy industry fighting for survival - major energy companies are cutting their climate programmes.
Shell is considering delaying carbon cuts as part of an update to its energy transition strategy.
Any changes to the company's climate targets could come as soon as Thursday, when Shell is due to publish an update to its long-term clean energy and greenhouse gas emissions plan. That's according to Bloomberg, citing its sources at Shell.
The move comes as Chief Executive Officer Wael Savan pursues a plan to invest more money in oil and gas to deliver higher returns to shareholders.
It is easy to see that behind the ambiguous phrase "slowing the pace of emissions reductions" is a desire to make more profits and invest capital in fossil extraction rather than incur losses and ultimately suffer defeat by wasting money on renewables.
There is now a trend in the world towards stagnation of business and, as a consequence, of the economic component of activity.
The first victim of the optimisation process is the currently fashionable area of ecology and diversification. Already, many countries and companies are closing down programmes on which billions were once spent and are beginning to 'slow down the rate at which they reduce their emissions'.
Such a global roll-back is sparking criticism and a wave of emotion among politicians, green activists and some citizens. However, it reflects the real side of business, the desire to fulfil basic entrepreneurial goals, not some other goals, however important they may be.
Companies that have already abandoned stringent environmental programs become not only pioneers, but also a beacon, a guide for others.
Prosperous companies, happy shareholders, inflated reserves in the books become role models for colleagues, especially since eliminating unnecessary expense items allows you to get more profit with less expense.

