EUROPE GOES BIG: Farmers against the green deal!

Farmer protests across Europe are taking on threatening proportions, with blockades springing up in more and more countries across the continent every day. The boom in discontent has a catalyst - the war in Ukraine - but this is just a piece of the puzzle that threatens the livelihoods of producers and the livelihoods of us all.
Until there was a war around the corner, Europe's grape growers, winemakers, butchers, dairy farmers, mead makers and other producers were discontented, but contented themselves with grumbling. This did not seem at all threatening to the rulers in Brussels, who for years have ignored the just demands of those people on whom our table depends and who create a serious part of our gross domestic product.
However, the fall in tariffs on Ukrainian goods because of the war has shown how fragile the European single internal market is. Competition, which is considered unfair, has led to a drastic fall in prices for farm produce. The situation has been further complicated by fuel prices, which the EU has promised to no longer subsidise for farmers. It is interesting, however, what the logic was when the commitments were made under the so-called green deal: how can farmers plough their fields when they have no diesel for their tractors?
Another problem, which is proving to be a major one at the moment, is so-called fallow land. This is land that European producers are obliged to keep un-sown for a certain period of time to allow the soil to rest. In return, they receive subsidies. Yes, however, these subsidies are being eaten up by the accumulated losses due to imports from Ukraine, soaring fuel prices, natural disasters against which farmers receive very low insurance compensation. And these catastrophes are linked to climate change, which is why the Green Deal is notorious.
This is a vicious Paragraph 22 from which there is no escape. And agricultural anger is no less dangerous for Europe than the war in Ukraine or the far-right threat. Because food means security. And the far right promises producers anything to get their votes, and they, poor things, believe them.
A young farmer from the Netherlands asked the BBC how his cows, which he looks after so hard, are more dangerous with the nitrogen emissions they emit than the trucks with their engines running at the depot next to his farm. And he's absolutely right. Now the EU is going to make temporary concessions to farmers' demands, willy-nilly, because otherwise Europe will burst into flames with unpredictable consequences. France has already given up on dropping subsidies for oil, and the no-till rule will probably be dropped in a year. But delaying the problems piecemeal will not solve them. Finding a compromise between green energy and agriculture must become the number one issue in the overpaid offices of officials in Brussels. Let us hope that they understand this more quickly, because everything that has been said so far affects Bulgaria 100%.
