Biden approves massive wind turbine project that could raise energy bills by more than 50%

New Jersey has become the latest victim of the Biden administration's drive for net-zero consumption. Earlier this month, the president approved a massive offshore project to build 195 wind turbines by 2028, with the closest one just 14.4 miles from the South Shore.
The Atlantic Coast-South project, nine years in the making, will deliver 2,800 megawatts of clean, renewable electricity to the Garden State - enough to power about one million homes.
The Biden administration sees the project as another milestone in reaching its goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind capacity by 2030. But according to an impact report prepared by Whitestrand Consulting, such rapid scale-up is expected to increase residents' energy costs by 55% by 2047, and for industrial users, the increase could be as high as 80%. And residents are not happy about it.
"Everyone in the city is against windmills. I have yet to meet a person who is for windmills," Nancy McGinnis, an Ocean City resident, told Fox 29.
The company behind the project, Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind LLC, is a joint venture between Shell and EDF Renewables. They say the project will bring $1.9 billion in economic benefits to New Jersey and create about 50,000 jobs.
However, according to the Whitestrand Impact Report, the offshore wind industry in New Jersey is moving in an economically unsustainable direction.
"Offshore wind is economically unviable without large subsidies in the form of federal tax credits and guaranteed above-market electricity prices.
The former is passed on to U.S. taxpayers, while the latter is a cost borne by electricity ratepayers in the state of New Jersey," the report states.
But New Jersey coastal residents aren't just worried about energy costs.
Although Atlantic Shores Wind LLC expects the project to reduce the state's annual greenhouse gas emissions by four million tons, local residents are concerned about the potential negative environmental impacts.
Long Beach Island (LBI) residents have formed the Save LBI Coalition, which is uniting against the Atlantic Shores South project. They are concerned about the "devastating impacts of placing hundreds of wind turbines in the ocean adjacent to Long Beach Island and other coastal communities," according to the Save LBI website.
In particular, Save LBI is concerned about the project's impact on marine wildlife. The project would block a major migration corridor for the endangered North Atlantic right whale. In addition, it will force shipping traffic to navigate a narrow 17.7 km wide corridor, which could cause safety issues for both ships and migrating whales.
In addition, offshore wind farms generate underwater noise pollution that can affect the behavior of fish, whales, and other species.
Save LBI also fears that the wind farm will obstruct ocean views and "forever destroy the natural view of the horizon." In an effort to stop the project, Save LBI plans to take the matter to New Jersey state court. "The project violates a number of laws and should be stopped, which is why we are challenging it in court. We have one lawsuit pending and will use at least seven other avenues for legal intervention," said Bob Stern, president and founder of Save LBI.
