Our climate will become like Lebanon's, the world has 5-8 years to avoid the hot cap

- Warm air from North Africa along with an anticyclonic fan helps fires develop, says climatologist Zornitsa Spasova
- Burning fossil fuels and increased greenhouse gases are to blame for temperature anomalies
Summer 2024 slapped us with a hellish heat, which at these latitudes we dread to compare with the desert heat. June was warmer, and we are still experiencing July's extreme heat.
It is likely that this summer will be hotter than last year's, which was the third hottest summer in recent years in this country. 2023 was also the hottest year globally, and ours was the hottest since 1930.
We are talking about a heat dome, under which are Serbia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, but also Ukraine
In them, a code red was issued because the hot period persisted for 17 days due to the anticyclonic state of the atmosphere - clear and clean skies, high atmospheric pressure, stable atmosphere. By the end of July temperatures will be more bearable.
Such extreme heat occurs when warm air from North Africa invades the country. Combined with the phonon effect in such situations, conditions are created for very high temperatures.
This is how the highest maximum air temperature in the country was measured - in Sadovo in 1916, 45.2 degrees. The fion effect can be observed not only on the leeward side, but also on both sides of the mountain - it is a manifestation of the so-called anticyclonic fion due to the subsidence of the air in the anticyclone.
This wind exacerbates the heat waves and aids the development of fires, which have already occurred in some locations.
There has been a lot of talk lately about magnetic storms and the malefic activity of the sun. But there is no link between these and hot weather. The burning of fossil fuels and the increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is the main culprit for the temperature anomalies today.
And with global warming, extreme events are becoming more frequent. The frequency of extreme weather events in our country has increased by 30% between 1991 and 2007 compared to the 1961-1990 baseline period.
extreme weather events will triple in 2050
In general, the new climate is "shifting" towards a warmer climate, but the normal distribution curve (the so-called Gaussian distribution) is also "shrinking", with decreasing means and increasing extremes.
Because the curve shifts to the warmer part of the scale, cold-related phenomena will decrease, and heat-related phenomena will increase sharply.
There is much talk of natural cycles in which cooler and hotter summers alternate over 10-15 yr. Cyclicity exists, but we cannot explain the tremendous warming of the Earth in recent decades by it alone.
Climatologists have found that the change in temperatures due to natural cycles is a tenth of a degree. Therefore, it can by no means be claimed that the warming we are seeing today is the result of a natural cause.
There is also much comment on astronomical factors, changes in the parameters of the Earth's orbit and the tilt of the Earth's axis, continental drift, volcanic eruptions and changes in ocean currents and, above all, changes in solar activity as the cause of warming.
Probably these changes are the result of hundreds of thousands of years and influence for as many. However, there is no other explanation for the rapid warming in recent decades other than greenhouse emissions.
It is a fact that the climate in Bulgaria is hotter, there are even predictions that in a few decades it will approach that of Lebanon. But a lot depends on whether the worst- or best-case scenarios for the Earth's warming climate come to pass.
The worst-case scenario is that by the end of the twenty-first century the Earth's average air temperature will be 5-6 degrees above pre-industrial levels. And we have very little time to prevent it - between 5 and 8 years according to the estimates of climatologists.
2 degrees is the tipping point beyond which
global warming will become irreversible
and nothing can be done. Humanity could then witness very dramatic events.
We must stop burning fossil fuels and reduce emissions as quickly as possible. However, it is not clear whether we are technologically ready to do this on a global scale. There is a lot of resistance from the oil lobby.
But humanity must fight back to keep the planet alive.
WHO: Heat claims 1,100 Bulgarian lives a year
The World Health Organization estimates that the heat in Bulgaria takes the lives of 1,100 people every year. Indeed, the death rate in summer is currently several times lower than in winter, but the problem is that during heat waves it rises sharply.
It has been found that 50% of migraines are due to an abrupt change in the weather. We have such a change when average daily temperatures change by more than 6 degrees from the previous day, or by 2 degrees but with a change from cloudy to clear weather, or vice versa; or when heavier rainfall starts.
Extremely hot temperatures can cause headaches, anxiety, fear, depression, eye fluttering, palpitations, dizziness.
Heart patients, hypertensives, asthmatics and those suffering from other categories of illnesses have an increased incidence of crises that can be fatal.