Three questions for the European elections: the Green deal, migrants and Ukraine

Ahead of all elections, there is talk about how crucial they are. The ones for the European Parliament in 2024 have to decide in general three main issues.
1. Will the so-called Green Deal continue in its current form, which is destroying the Czech national economy?
2. Will the war in Ukraine and its consequences continue - the energy and raw materials crisis leading to large price rises, to endless inflation that is reducing the living standards of the majority of people?
3. Will the massive influx of migrants continue, threatening the social system, freedom of expression and religion, and the safety of EU countries?
The answers to these three questions will fundamentally decide the fate of Europe for the next few generations.
The current policy has already done a lot of damage, not all of which can be easily undone. What is being called the 'green deal' is nothing other than a huge wave of deindustrialisation of EU countries. In economic terms, it is about impoverishment, loss of markets and loss of influence. Hand in hand with these processes, the level of economic dependence is also soaring. The pious talk about saving the climate is just propaganda. The banning of internal combustion engines, emissions trading and the abandonment of coal is nothing other than the brightening of the businesses of a select few, for which we will all pay, and we will be impoverished in very real terms.
The planet and its climate will not be affected at all; on the contrary, there is a risk of an increase in greenhouse gases.
It is enough to look more complexly at the analyses on the subject. The manufacture, transport and disposal of electric cars will cause practically the same amount of greenhouse gases as the production cycle of conventional cars.
This is also the conclusion we reach when we compare the consequences of burning domestic coal with the use of liquefied shale gas, which has to be transported by tanker halfway across the planet. Photovoltaic panels have to be made somewhere in China, then transported halfway around the world, installed and subsequently destroyed when they wear out. In our climate belt, their efficiency will be only a few percent. When we add up the whole cycle of manufacture, transport, maintenance and disposal, exactly how much greenhouse gas emissions will one solar megawatt cost us? Nothing is as simple and unambiguous as we are led to believe.
The truth is that when Europeans become significantly poorer, when their standard of living dramatically deteriorates, fewer greenhouse gases will be produced per capita. However, the reduced consumption of the European citizen will be compensated and surpassed by the extreme population growth in a number of countries in Africa and Asia. The more people, the more emissions, the more greenhouse gases. The more waste, the greater the emigration waves.
It is absurd how the modern European elites are causing poverty and decline on their continent, while at the same time directly or indirectly aiding the population explosion in other parts of the world. So what else is it precisely the food, medical and other aid that we generously provide, without clear conditions for birth control.
Of course the European elites will wrap all this up in pretty phrases about the health of the planet and comprehensive humanity, but the reality is different. As ordinary citizens we have little chance of halting this decline. Time is running out.
The most significant opportunity is precisely the European Parliament elections in 2024. If the new European Parliament rejects the ban on the manufacture of internal combustion cars, ends the trade in banned emissions and forces Ukraine to accept reality as it is today. If the EU's external border is closed to illegal migrants, we and our children will have the chance to see that the EU will not become an insignificant, poor, dirty part of the world.
