Scorching heat: Over 50 degrees plague the US and Mexico

Earth is 1.64 degrees hotter than in pre-industrial era
Temperatures in 2023 were the highest in human history, and the Earth was 1.64 °C hotter than in the pre-industrial era. That's according to a new study that tracked monthly averages from July 2023 to June 2024.
The heat is creating increasingly unusual phenomena in every part of the world - overheating causes disorientation and heat strokes as early as the start of the summer season, air traffic is disrupted, and in Kuwait even the cones on the highways have melted. Against this backdrop, hurricanes more powerful than ever are devastating thousands of homes.
In the US, for example, while temperatures in places on the West Coast were knocking 51 degrees, the eastern states of Texas and Louisiana were being battered by Hurricane Beryl. It picked up speed all week, reaching Category 5 hurricane status - with winds stronger than 252 kilometres per hour.
It hit the Caribbean islands first, and also passed through Mexico, leaving thousands homeless and sweeping away entire populated areas. When it hit Texas and Louisiana on Monday, it had downgraded to Category 1 strength and still claimed eight victims and knocked out power to nearly 3 million Americans.
Authorities said it could take them more than a week to restore power. Against this backdrop, temperatures in the region were expected to reach 40 degrees Celsius as early as Tuesday.
And on the West Coast, July began with extreme heat - in California, a long-lasting heat wave broke records 96 days in a row.
Palm Springs broke 51 degrees on July 4, reaching its highest since records began in 1893. In Las Vegas, thermometers also passed 50 degrees. Shortly before being pummeled by the hurricane, Mexico also recorded its hottest day on record, at 51.9 degrees.
The heat also caused another massive traffic jam in New York City, where the Third Avenue Bridge, which connects the Bronx to Manhattan, was blocked during a rotation on Monday due to overheating. The bridge over the Harlem River opened the same day, but caused huge delays on New York's warmest day on record as temperatures reached 33 degrees.
Climate change is exposing more people to extreme weather and increasing the chances of killer heat, scientists say. A prolonged rise in temperatures above current levels increases the risk of uncertain but catastrophic events.