Half of Cyprus' beaches could disappear in 50 years

If current levels of greenhouse gas emissions persist and action is not taken in time, sea level rise is expected to wipe out about 50 percent of Cyprus' beaches in the next 50 years, BTA reported, citing George Zitis, an associate research fellow at the Cyprus Institute for Climate and Atmospheric Research's Centre of Excellence.
Dr Zitis told CNA that climate change is making Cyprus warmer and drier with multiple impacts on nature, human health and the economy. He noted that even if we stop gas emissions today, temperatures are expected to continue rising over the next 20-30 years and therefore measures are needed to adapt to the new conditions.
"Cyprus and the wider Eastern Mediterranean region are mainly affected by the increasing temperatures, especially during the summer season," he told CNA, noting that in other parts of the world, such as northern Europe, the temperature rise is mainly seen in winter.
This magnifies the effects as Cyprus is located in a particularly warm region. These consequences, Dr Zitis added, affect energy consumption, agricultural production and human health. "Recently we had two deaths from heat stroke," he said. He further noted that forest fires are also linked to high summer temperatures.
Another characteristic of the region that Dr Zitis pointed out is that the increase in temperature is accompanied by a decrease in rainfall. "Although the trends are not as pronounced as for temperature, we are moving towards drier climate averages," he said, noting the difference in more northern latitudes where climate change is contributing to increased rainfall.
Asked about the impact of sea level rise in Cyprus, he said that in the country most of the infrastructure, airports, ports, power plants are located close to the coast. In addition, most of the tourist activity is located near the beaches, he added. "We think they will be affected by sea level rise," he said.
He added that in a pessimistic scenario where greenhouse gases continue to be released at the current rate and no timely action is taken, "sea level rise is expected to destroy about 50 per cent of Cyprus' beaches", explaining that the projections are for the next 50 years.
Asked if the situation was reversible if action was taken, he said measures had to be in the short term, "that is over the next decade, to reduce the volume of greenhouse gas emissions enough to limit warming and sea level rise".
However, Dr Zitis stressed, "the scale of concentrations is such that even if we were to stop greenhouse gas emissions completely today, over the next 2-3 decades temperatures will continue to rise". Therefore, he said, some measures will have to be taken to adapt to these increasingly hot and dry conditions.
These measures could include more rational use of water resources, more energy-efficient buildings, air-conditioning, crops that are more resilient in warmer and drier conditions, and even a change in tourism patterns, "because our summers may be too hot for tourists and so we need to see what the opportunities are in the slightly cooler periods of the year," Dr Zitis said.
Asked whether the measures Cyprus is taking to limit greenhouse gas emissions are sufficient, he said that Cyprus, as an EU member state, has to comply with EU targets, which he said are quite ambitious. "We are a little behind, there is room for improvement, for example in electricity generation, these efforts can be stepped up," Dr Zitis concluded.