Scientists: in 50 years we will live in conditions that are unsuitable for the development of human life

Scientists: in 50 years we will live in conditions that are unsuitable for the development of human life
If global warming continues unabated, the heat wave coming later this century will result in "nearly unlivable" conditions for 3 billion people, says a study published in late 2020. Scientists predict that by 2070 to 2080 a large proportion of the world's population is likely to be living in climates that are "warmer than conditions considered suitable for the development of human life."
The climate 'niche' and its importance
Climatologists warn that unless greenhouse gas emissions are curbed, average annual temperatures will rise beyond the climatic 'niche' in which humans have evolved for 6,000 years. This 'niche' is equivalent to average annual temperatures of around 11 to 15 degrees Celsius. The researchers found that humans, despite all forms of innovation and migrations, have lived primarily in these climates for several thousand years.
"We show that under a business-as-usual climate change scenario, the geographic position of this temperature niche is projected to change more over the next 50 years than it has over the past 6,000 years," the study warns.
Greenhouse gas emissions and their impacts
The scenario used in the study shows that atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases will remain high. The burning of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas releases 'greenhouse' gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane into the Earth's atmosphere and oceans. The emissions raise the planet's temperatures to levels that cannot be explained by natural factors, scientists report.
Temperatures are predicted to rise rapidly over the next few decades as a result of man-made greenhouse gas emissions. Without climate mitigation or migration, by 2070 a significant portion of humanity will be exposed to average annual temperatures warmer almost everywhere than today, the study said.
Humanity's future under extreme heat
Currently, these brutally hot climates exist on only 0.8 percent of the world's land surface, mostly in the hottest parts of the Sahara Desert. But by 2070 the conditions could spread to 19% of the Earth's land area. This includes large parts of North Africa, the Middle East, the Americas, South Asia and parts of Australia.
"Large areas of the planet would heat up to levels at which humans could barely survive, and they will not cool down again," says one of the study's authors, Marten Schaefer of Wageningen University in the Netherlands. "This would not only have disastrous direct consequences, but would make societies less able to cope with future crises, such as possible new pandemics. The only thing that can stop such a development is a rapid reduction in carbon emissions."
The study clearly shows that without significant action to limit climate change, the future of humanity is at serious risk. The need for rapid and effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is more urgent than ever. Otherwise, billions of people will be forced to live in conditions that are far from optimal for human existence.
