Manolov: Green deal went too far

"The goals that were set without having the possibilities to achieve them cannot bring us to a good end and this is already visible, and what will happen - I do not know, because many requests for changes were made. What is important for us is to rethink this trading in greenhouse gas emission quotas, which is ruining the Bulgarian energy industry, and we need to review all the documents that concern Bulgaria, in this case not just Bulgaria, but the whole of the European Union. The documents that concern Bulgaria in terms of energy are the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the territorial plans," said the president of the trade union "Podkrepa" Dimitar Manolov in the studio of "Brussels 1".
He added to Bulgaria ON AIR that changing some green policies would be difficult. Besides, there is a lot of money in the Green Deal that will not be given easily.
"The Green Deal is jam-packed with 'wills'. We talk about some things that haven't come up, and we rely on them to solve our problems. Someday they will appear, they will appear, like energy storage mechanisms," he explained.
Manolov added that during the last GERB government the unions and the government negotiated and reached a consensus. However, he said, this consensus has not produced a result.
"Then we negotiated the parameters of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the energy policies in it, which were agreed with the European Commission, but shortly afterwards they were changed. GERB made a monstrous mistake when it did not submit this version of the Plan. Let me say what this is about. Then, when we started to talk about allocating such funds for post-Covid crisis recovery, we were brought together by the Deputy Prime Minister, Tomislav Donchev. Then we worked for over half a year and made the best version of this Recovery Plan, but it did not happen," Manolov said.
According to the guest, the EU should draw its own conclusions after the massive agricultural protests all over Europe. Farmers said green policies made their produce more expensive, the price of which was undercut by produce imported from third countries. "If a normal dialogue starts, normal decisions can be made, but I am not optimistic, given the amount of money behind the Green Deal," said Dimitar Manolov.
