Nothing can stop the catastrophe: On this date humanity will be destroyed

The Earth is expected to become an extremely hot, dry and largely uninhabitable supercontinent, with the entire land mass merging into one giant parcel
Experts have predicted when humanity will be wiped out - and what the mass extinction will cause, glasnews.bg reports.
We've been warned for years about the impact of global warming on the survival of humanity as we know it, with rising temperatures leading to concerns about global food supplies, rising sea levels and areas of the planet becoming too hot to live.
Even at the age of 97, Sir David Attenborough is making an urgent last plea to all for the survival of humanity.
Scientific experts also update the apocalyptic-sounding Doomsday Clock every year. This shows us how close humanity is to a global catastrophe of our own making.
Now the first ever supercomputer climate models of the distant future have been revealed following a study published in Nature Geoscience and led by the University of Bristol.
The expectation is that the Earth will become an extremely hot, dry and largely uninhabitable supercontinent, with the entire land mass merging into one giant parcel.
This will create a world with more volcanic eruptions emitting huge plumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere, further warming the planet. The sun will also become hotter and brighter in the sky, warming the Earth more than it is now, leading to average temperatures between 40 and 50 degrees Celsius.
The lead author of the 2023 study - Dr Alexander Farnsworth, a senior research fellow at the University of Bristol - said: 'The newly emerged supercontinent will effectively create a triple whammy, involving the effects of continentality, a hotter sun and more CO2 in the atmosphere, of increasing heat for much of the planet.
"The result is a mostly hostile environment devoid of food and water sources for mammals. Humans, along with many other species, will die due to their inability to release this heat through sweat, cooling their bodies," he says.
The study found that even if humanity stopped using fossil fuels right now, nothing could stop the catastrophe. So even if humanity somehow survives to the event, total annihilation will occur again.
The only salvation is that it is predicted to happen in 250 million years.
Co-author Dr Eunice Lo, Research Fellow in Climate Change and Health at the University of Bristol, said: 'It is vital that we do not lose sight of our current climate crisis, which is the result of human emissions of greenhouse gases.
"Although we predict an uninhabitable planet in 250 million years' time, we are already experiencing extreme heat events today that are harmful to human health. That's why it's critical that we reach net zero emissions as soon as possible."
Professor Benjamin Mills of the University of Leeds said:
"We estimate that CO2 could rise from around 400 parts per million (ppm) today to more than 600 ppm many millions of years in the future. Of course, this assumes that people will stop burning fossil fuels, otherwise we will see these numbers much, much sooner," he said.
