Davos report: Millions will die by 2050 due to climate change

Tropical diseases will emerge in Europe and the US
Climate change threatens to lead to several million deaths in the coming decades, as well as serious diseases and high costs for health systems, according to a report released today in Davos, Switzerland, BTA reports. Flooding poses the greatest risk, according to the joint report by the World Economic Forum (WEF), which is being held this week in Davos, and consulting firm Oliver Wyman.
The authors of the study analysed six key impacts of climate change: floods, droughts, heatwaves, tropical storms, wildfires and sea level rise.
The study is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) average temperature rise scenario to 2100, which assumes an average temperature rise of 2.7 degrees Celsius. In that case, the study says, climate change could cause up to 14.5 million deaths worldwide by 2050. Health systems would have to bear additional costs totalling $1.1 trillion.
Floods alone are estimated to cause 8.5 million deaths by 2050 - not only directly, but also indirectly through crop damage, increased infectious diseases and higher humidity that can lead to respiratory diseases.
The Asia-Pacific region, with its densely populated coastal regions, is likely to bear the brunt of this.
The report's authors expect the second-highest death toll, 3.2 million deaths, to be caused by droughts, mainly because of the long-term effects on infant mortality from deteriorating water quality and increasingly infertile soils.
According to the report, heatwaves could claim an estimated 1.6 million lives by 2050, especially among the elderly.
Warmer temperatures, for example, could lead to a significant spread of mosquitoes, making malaria and dengue and zika fevers more common in Europe and the US.
Overall, however, the study says regions in Africa, the Middle East and Asia will be particularly affected by the health consequences of climate change.
The results of the report will be discussed at the World Economic Forum in Davos on Thursday.