What a surprise - it's hot in July!

What a surprise - it's hot in July!
For weeks I have been hearing the roaring and crying about how hot it is in July. There are gloomy climatologists on TV who gravely report that this July is very, very hot. TV meekly falls on its knees before the heat and claims that every year is hotter than the last. But it's not true - the hottest here was in Sadow in 1916 at 45.2 degrees when there weren't even neo-communists and a green deal.
What happened to the Green Deal? Why did it go silent ?
I personally remember no less heat in July in the late 60s, in the 70s and in August 1986. Back then temps got to about 42-43 degrees and I felt great.
And now with the apocalyptic /actually idiotic predictions of the neo-communists/ I feel great at 39 degrees here. Unfortunately there have been fires, but there have ALWAYS been fires in the summer over the last dozen centuries in human memory - on the planet.
Hundreds of scientists claim that the current warming is NOT due to humans, but to the increased sun, to volcanoes warming the world, to powerful ocean currents. Most likely the warming /the current winters are a dumb joke/ which is undoubtedly due to natural cycles, and they have nothing to do with human activity.
In the early 70's the same today's ominous prophets of terrible climate change /or their children/ were ugly scaring people with global cooling and a new ice age!!! Today's neo-communists who deliberately frighten people with global warming don't want to be reminded of that at all, but I remember for a long time! That debunking fact alone is enough to embarrass the warmists, but no one remembers, bothers or wants to think.
Here's the thing: the neo-communists who now command Western Europe and half of America /will soon lose that too/ want to pick the pockets of ordinary people and scare them with extreme weather supposedly caused by humans. /There is extreme weather, but it is NOT caused by humans, but by Nature. The neo-communists in Washington and Brussels know that scared people with their pockets emptied by the green deal are the easiest to COMMAND!
That's the "global warming" and "climate change" of the neo-communists.
Comment is from Facebook, headline is the editorial