Scientists: We're on a new planet if temperatures don't drop by the end of 2024

Last March was the warmest on record, breaking all records
Climate change could almost turn us into a new planet and territory if temperatures don't drop by the end of the year. A top scientist warned the BBC of this.
The reason for his words is the hot March, which beat the world record with July temperatures.
This has fuelled fears among experts that the world could be entering a new phase of even faster climate change.
"By the end of the summer, if we're still seeing record temperatures in the North Atlantic or elsewhere, then we've really moved into uncharted territory," declared Gavin Schmidt, director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies.
This is the 10th consecutive monthly record in the warming phase, which shattered all previous ones. Over the past 12 months, average global temperatures have been 1.58°C above pre-industrial levels.
Yet longer-term warming trends are almost in line with expectations and most researchers do not believe the climate has entered a new phase. But scientists struggle to explain exactly why the end of 2023 was so warm.
March's record was expected. The El Niño climate phenomenon, which began last June and peaked in December, adds heat to that already in the atmosphere from burning fossil fuels. They are the main driver of the high temperatures.
But degrees started breaking records by a particularly wide margin around last September, and back then El Niño was still developing, so it can't be
explanation for all the extra heat.
Dr. Schmidt is concerned about what this means for future forecasts.
"Our forecasts have failed quite
dramatically for the specifics of 2023, and if the previous statistics don't work, then it becomes very difficult to say what will happen in the future," the scientist warns.
"We're still trying to understand why the situation changed so dramatically in the mid
last year and how long it will last, whether it is a phase shift or a breakthrough in the
long-term climate trends," said Dr Samantha Burgess of Copernicus.
Diana Urge-Worsatz, vice-chair of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, noted that the planet is warming by
temperatures by 0.3 degrees per decade
over the past 15 years, almost double the rate for the period around 1970.
"Is this within the limits of climate variability, or a signal of accelerated warming?
My concern is that it may be too late if we just wait to see," added
Diana Urge-Worsatz.