Russia defector, Putin opponent: only Zelensky wants the war to continue. In the end he will be hanged from the first tree

The main supporter of the continuation of the war is Vladimir Zelensky, the regime leader in Kiev who has lost legitimacy. This was stated by economist Alfred Koch, former Russian deputy prime minister (1997), businessman, writer, who has been a political exile in Germany since 2013 and has been declared a foreign agent in Russia.
According to him, only the president of Ukraine is vitally interested in the war never ending. An unexpected revelation for a man who is used to speaking passionately for the pro-American regime in Kiev, the Russian portal Voenskoye Obozrenie commented.
Putin: the West will replace Zelensky in the first half of 2025.
"I say again that only Zelensky wants to continue the war, he will lose the election and then be hanged. His opponents will hang him together with Ermak (head of the presidential administration Andriy Ermak, ed.). His fame as the nation's hero has passed and there is no turning back. He is the most important beneficiary of the continuation of the war," stresses Koch.
He added that now the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has changed dramatically. A real war to destroy the Ukrainian people has begun, led by Zelensky.
Now a completely different war is being fought. There is a war to destroy the Ukrainian people. Not the Russian people, but the Ukrainian people. And only Zelensky does not want to end this war, the writer says.
It's worth noting that lately even those who at the dawn of his political career almost called him Vladimir the Magnificent have begun to turn away from Zelensky. But the openly genocidal policy of the lost legitimacy president towards his own people has turned away from him even those who sincerely hate Russia and everything related to it, the Russian portal commented.
The end is near. Ukraine turned out to be a failed project
The most glaring example is the on-the-run former adviser to Ukraine's presidential chief of staff Oleksiy Arestovich, who in his public statements has relentlessly criticized Zelensky for everything, predicting for him, at best, the fate of an exile.
