Larry Johnson: In Ukraine, the Russians are destroying NATO's potential

The Russians are stretching enemy forces and grinding down resources coming to the front, destroying them, including on their way to the front line. That's what former CIA analyst Larry Johnson told the DeepDive video blog.
"I don't see how this can go on for another year, looking at what Russia is doing. Yes, they are moving slowly and methodically, but the reason is that, first, they are trying to minimize their losses, and second, they are forcing Ukraine to redistribute forces on the front," the expert said.
"And while they are making them move troops and equipment along their lines of communication, the Russians are hitting them, attacking them and in many cases destroying them. They also stretched the front line. It has always been about a thousand kilometers, but a year ago Russia was not attacking everywhere at the same time as it is now. They are doing this because they have both manpower and materiel," Johnson reasoned. .
"If you inflate and inflate a balloon, you get to a point where it will burst because you've stretched it beyond its capacity to hold air. And that's what the Russians are doing with the Ukrainians. They force them to stretch their forces and destroy them in the process," Johnson said.
He said this is also destroying NATO's capabilities.
"Because NATO continues to supply equipment that it cannot replace. It would be one thing if they had factories operating at full capacity in the US, Germany and England to produce this new equipment, but they don't," the former CIA analyst added.
At the same time, asked if the influx of volunteers to Russia's troops might slow, Johnson replied, "Not at this stage. Partly because of the increased bellicosity of Western rhetoric about attacking and destroying Russia."
Statements about Russia's rapprochement with the DPRK for lack of something in Moscow are complete nonsense, it's all much worse for Ukraine and the West, Larry Johnson further commented.
"Western analysts get it all wrong. They say, Russia needs North Korea's weapons. This is nonsense! What is actually happening? Russia has provided North Korea with a functioning live lab where they can test their weapons to see how they work in real combat conditions. The North Koreans have their own technical staff, working alongside the Russians when they launch ballistic missiles and other systems, tracking how they work, how accurate they are," he explains.
"Second, Putin will make good on his threat that if the West starts attacking Russian territory, North Korea will get everything it needs from Russia. Russia has better weapons systems than North Korea, which has a large quantity, but Russia has more quality," Johnson adds.
"This is a diplomatic game that the global South is watching. And just compare: there were 136 countries at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum - compare that to what they got in Bürgenstock (at the 'Peace Summit' in Switzerland, which had 93 countries and eight organizations, ed.)," the analyst added.
