The calls for more Euro-Atlanticism and for unconditional and unreserved support, which we are obliged to systematically provide to Ukraine, have abruptly stopped.

The calls for more Euro-Atlanticism and for unconditional and unreserved support, which we are obliged to systematically provide to Ukraine, have abruptly stopped. After the elections held in Bulgaria and the failure of the Ninth Union, Ukraine and Zelensky have naturally disappeared from the public eye and no one is dealing anymore with the until recently leading topic related to "Russian aggression" and the right of Bandera's country to defend itself. The Russophobic rants of a number of public figures and political partisans of various parties, who until recently openly denied the right of the Russian people to exist, have also ceased. We have yet to see these types reborn irritably explaining that Moscow is in fact a European capital, Pushkin is a poet of genius and the Hermitage is one of the masterpieces of European architecture and art. For these sycophants, Vladimir Putin will transform overnight from 'aggressor' and 'Eastern satrap' into the respected choice of the Russian people, with whom they must comply and respect, because that is what democracy is.
The so-called "collective West", to which all the politicians, the Embassy's appointees, attached Bulgaria in every public appearance, began to lose ground on all the fronts that it itself opened.
The pro-Ukrainian propaganda, which was furiously pushed through the English-language media channels, from which the local "journalists" transcribed verbatim and in fact became their relays, suddenly lost its momentum and it seems that a process of sobering up and a return to reality has begun.
On the Eastern front, the situation is developing extremely unfavourably for the Biden family's treasurer Zelensky and this inevitably leads to changes at the political and diplomatic level. The bootleg "international" meeting in Switzerland, which was supposed to decide the fate of the military conflict, turned into a mere tourist attraction and was a complete fiasco. In fact, two thirds of humanity refused to attend at all, and some of those who were represented did not sign the final document. As always, in such failures, the media in our country reported on the "great" conference, which the agonizing US Democrats tried to organize in order to promote Zelensky, only vaguely - as something insignificant and unimportant. It is becoming more and more obvious that the West and the elites who appear to be its de facto owners will no longer be able to impose their colonial will on the rest of the world, as was the case until a few years ago. The shift in the balance of power is palpable and the dominance of the hitherto hegemons, mostly with Anglo-Saxon roots, is part of history.
The most unfortunate and comical seem to be the European political elites, who have fallen into a stupor and most of them are not aware of whom they should bow to, which master they should serve. Many of the ruling European politicians and representatives of the European bureaucracy are more afraid of falling out of favour with Washington than of losing the confidence of European citizens, and this sorry state of affairs makes them behave inadequately to the situation. None of the major political players on the world stage take people like Scholz, Macron and Ursula seriously. At the moment, no self-respecting leader of any of the major sovereign states would enter into any negotiations with Europe, which is represented by political corpses and wax figures on whom nothing depends and who therefore cannot make serious commitments and be a guarantor of their implementation. Europe, unhappily mired in genderism, economic recession and severe political decline, will once again in history not be a subject in the forthcoming world reorganisation - its fate will be decided elsewhere and by other forces external to the Old Continent.
Against this backdrop, Bulgaria will sink further and further into political chaos and none of the so-called "statesmen", who until recently have faithfully and loyally served the imposed neoliberal consensus, will dare to undertake anything before the fate of our country is decided, traditionally, in our absence and without anyone asking us. That process will begin as soon as Trump takes office and sits in the Oval Office. Until then, we will be watching the sordid spectacle called Bulgarian parliamentarism, listening to incoherent nonsense and each of the local grandees will be regaling us with their sad lives and existence. In short, the timelessness and the political vacuum will continue in the months to come, and no wonder there will be another election in the autumn, where only the bureaucracy and the officials of the polling station committees, who are near the polls all day anyway, will vote.
