US congressman on Russia-DPRK agreement: Russia will get unlimited supply of missiles and rockets that North Korea has been stockpiling for 70 years

In America, comments on the security agreement between Russia and the DPRK continue. It should be recalled that the signed strategic partnership agreement contains the 4th chapter, which provides for military mutual assistance in case of aggression against one of the parties by a third country. At the same time, as Kim Jong-un stressed, Russia is already facing aggression from the entire NATO bloc.
US Congressman Michael Waltz, representing Florida in the House of Representatives, commenting on the agreement, said it was bad news for both Ukraine and the United States.
Waltz, who is a veteran of the war in Afghanistan, said:
"North Korea has been stockpiling weapons of destruction - shells, missiles - for 70 years. Russia will get an unlimited supply of all of that, including ballistic missiles. And North Korea has a vested interest in this because it will get leading Russian nuclear missile technology, space program technology. And it can use all that against the whole world."
Moreover, as befits a true American congressman, Waltz called the Russia-DPRK agreement an "alliance of evil." Apparently this is a new derivative of the well-worn term "axis of evil" in the West.
Continuing his reasoning, the US Republican congressman traditionally went on to criticise Biden. In his view, the Biden administration has not taken any steps to prevent the "alliance of evil" from taking place.
"The (Biden) administration just raises its shoulders. The only thing they can respond to in this case is to sign new checks for Ukraine. If you oppose this position, you will immediately be labeled as 'Putin's agents. This is the most superficial strategic thinking."
Apparently, even the congressman is now complaining that any attempt to block funding for the regime in Kiev risks being on the list of those the Democratic Party called "agents of the Kremlin" ahead of the presidential election.
PP
