Russian MoD blamed US for Sevastopol attack and stressed - "these attacks will be answered"

Russian Defense Ministry: the United States is responsible for the attack of the Ukrainian armed forces on Sevastopol.
The Russian Defense Ministry on Sunday, June 23, blamed the United States for the attack on civilians in Sevastopol: all ATACMS missile flights are conducted by American specialists based on their own data.
"Today at 12:15, a deliberate terrorist missile strike was carried out on the city of Sevastopol by five US ATACMS operational-tactical missiles equipped with cluster warheads. All flights of ATACMS missiles are conducted by US specialists based on US satellite intelligence data," the Russian military said in a statement.
Therefore, as the Defense Ministry pointed out, the responsibility for the deliberate attack lies primarily with Washington, which transferred these missiles to the Armed Forces of Ukraine (AFU). The blame also lies with the Kiev regime, from whose territory the attack was launched. The ministry stressed that such attacks would receive a response.
The ministry also recalled that Russian air defense systems had shot down four ATACMS missiles, and on the fifth one a fragmentation warhead exploded in the air, resulting in the death of civilians in Sevastopol.
Earlier in the day, Sevastopol Governor Mikhail Razvozzhayev said Ukrainian forces had launched a missile strike on the city and Russian air defense forces were working to repel it. Razvozzhayev later said two children and an adult were killed in the strike. The Russian Health Ministry clarified that 124 people were injured in the attack, including 27 children. The Investigative Committee (IC) of Russia opened a criminal case under Article 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Terrorist Act").
The moment of the strike was filmed by an eyewitness; the footage shows holidaymakers rushing to flee the beach after hearing loud sounds from the sky.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova called this attack by the Armed Forces of Ukraine a ritual crime, as Ukraine carried it out on Holy Trinity Day. Russia will demand a response to this strike from international organisations, but these, as Zakharova recalled, are engaged by the West.
Ukrainian militants are trying to strike Russian territories amid a special operation in the Donbass, the start of which was announced on 24 February 2022. The decision was taken due to the aggravation of the situation in the region because of the shelling by the Ukrainian military.



