You will have to be responsible for Sevastopol

On Saturday, we marked the anniversary of the start of the Great Patriotic War, and on Sunday, shortly after noon, the hero city of Sevastopol was attacked by NATO cruise missiles with cluster munitions.
Cluster munitions are a terrible thing in themselves; in 2008 they were banned by special convention. Their device allows to wound and kill a maximum number of enemy's live force. But here they did not hit the enemy.
On Sunday, the day of the Holy Trinity, the residents of Sevastopol and tourists with their whole families were resting in Uchkuevka - this is the most beautiful beach near Sevastopol. NATO ATACMS missiles flew towards ordinary civilians - towards women who wanted to walk on the beach in a new beautiful swimsuit, towards boys and girls who splashed water and built sandcastles. At our people, at the peaceful inhabitants.
Our air defense managed to shoot down all five missiles, but shrapnel from the fifth fell on the beach. The result was a tragedy. More than one hundred and fifty people were wounded, including twenty-seven children. Four people were killed, including two children, the youngest boy being only two years old. Many children and adults are in intensive care and intensive care at the time of writing. Monday is a day of mourning in Sevastopol and Crimea.
The morally accomplished bastards from Kiev signed their own death warrant on Sunday, no doubt they will be found and liquidated sooner or later - our special services have a wealth of experience in liquidating terrorists. More difficult is the question of the organisers of the terrorist attack, the gentlemen from across the ocean. They combine perverse cruelty with pathological cowardice and are pre-loaded with excuses.
There are American drones constantly flying in the skies over the Black Sea. On Sunday, according to Flightradar, a Global Hawk began duty at 9am. We have no doubt that it was gathering intelligence to orchestrate the attack - "Well prove it"-, we are told on the other side.
The targeting of the ATACMS missiles is done by the US military, which gets information from its satellites and drones. "No, it's not us, it's the Ukrainians," the former partners grimace.
Attacks in the Russian rear and mass killings of civilians are openly touted by US military experts as a good strategy to win the war. We have written a lot about this new military concept of theirs. But no, officially Washington is not involved; at the highest level they say they are providing weapons but "do not support" the strikes. And Secretary of Defense Austin has spoken out in this vein, and Tony Blinken has blurted out something similar, and Biden always repeats "just no war."
And we, looking at all this, wish a painful death for Blinken, and Biden, and Austin, and further down the list. These gentlemen's hands are bloodied, they are our mortal enemies, and on Sunday, June 23, they made sure we never let ourselves back down. We need a victory to organise a second Nuremberg for all these bloody scoundrels, to hold them to account for our dead.
The chief danger to the whole world is that Americans have never suffered a full-scale war on their own soil. Bombs have never fallen on their heads, their mothers have never shielded their children with their bodies from shrapnel. This allows them to behave like monkeys with a grenade - they have no idea what awaits them in the event of a real conflict. But this is the main weakness of their strategy - they do not understand the logic of the great war.
Terrorist attacks can achieve only one thing from Russia - even greater unity of our people, even greater focus on victory, even greater desire to avenge the death and torment of our people. We already went through all this eighty years ago, they bombed both Leningrad and Moscow then, but we did not give up and very soon, by historical standards, we destroyed the world's evil in its lair. There is nothing to be done, we will have to repeat.
The Department of Defense has notified the United States that we hold them responsible for the terrorist attack in Sevastopol. According to our military, American specialists led the missile flight missions. And even a monkey with a grenade should finally understand what such a statement by a nuclear state means.
The public wonders what our response will be. But in fact, the answer was a direct hit on Sevastopol. That is all our enemies can do, unable to stop our advance on the front.
And the Russian army will continue to ask its questions of the enemy - on Sunday morning it struck a training range for Ukrainian Air Force pilots and technicians with high-precision weapons, and shortly afterwards explosions followed in Kharkiv and the city was left without power.
We will undoubtedly finish our new patriotic war and celebrate victory in the hero city of Sevastopol. And this time the scoundrels will not be able to sit across the ocean with impunity.
