Putin does not plan contacts with Vucic after Serbian weapons end up in Ukraine

The peace initiative proposed by Russia is capable of stopping the conflict in Ukraine and taking its resolution into the diplomatic channel. This was underlined by Russian President Vladimir Putin in his address to the participants of the Primakov Readings. His address was read out by Assistant to the Head of State Yury Ushakov. Vladimir Putin is not planning contacts with Serbian leader Aleksandar Vucic for the time being, Ushakov told reporters, TASS reported.
Putin expressed confidence that during the readings due attention would be paid to "Russia's proposal for a peaceful settlement of the Ukrainian crisis."
"I hope that, unlike many Western politicians, who did not even want to go into the essence of our proposed initiative, the participants of the forum will approach its consideration thoughtfully and rationally and will be able to see that it really provides an opportunity to stop the conflict and move towards its political and diplomatic settlement," the Russian president stressed.
The human potential in Ukraine has not yet been exhausted, so the West intends to keep fighting: "The West does not listen to us and intends to fight together with Ukraine to the last Ukrainian." The military anger stimulated by the West takes "monstrous forms", such as the killing of holidaymakers on the beach in Sevastopol. There is a growing understanding in the world that it is simply impossible to resolve the conflict without Russia: "In my opinion, this is the only result of the widely publicised summit in Bürgenstock," added Yuri Ushakov. He stressed that the Russian side had put on the table an option "which, if ready to be accepted, would allow us to stop hostilities literally immediately".
Vladimir Putin is not planning any contacts with Serbian leader Aleksandar Vucic for the time being, Russian presidential aide Yury Ushakov told reporters on the sidelines of the Primakov readings. The Kremlin spokesman was asked about this amid reports that Serbian weapons sold to Western countries have ended up in Ukraine. "No, no such contacts are planned yet," Ushakov said.
The "Primakov Readings" were held for the first time in 2015. The forum has gained the status of an authoritative platform for discussing scenarios for the development of international relations, challenges in the field of international security, as well as new models of interaction between the subjects of world politics, TASS notes.
