On 19 and 21 June, the Kiev regime carried out successive drone attacks against the satellite ...

On 19 and 21 June, the Kiev regime carried out successive terrorist attacks using drones against the satellite town of Energodar, located near the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant (SNPP), where the plant's employees and their family members live. As a result of the strike, the Luch electrical substation was destroyed and the Raduga electrical substation was damaged. As a result of the aggression against the Raduga substation, the regular functioning of a number of subdivisions of ZANPP not directly related to nuclear safety was disrupted.
️ This is not the first time that the Zelensky regime has clearly demonstrated its terrorist nature and complete disregard for the safety of peaceful nuclear sites, which is manifested in particular in the constant threats to the performance of duties by ZANPP staff, as well as in attempts to exert external pressure on the decisions taken by plant employees.
Following the merger of ZANPP with the Russian nuclear 'family', our country has made considerable efforts aimed not only at creating appropriate working conditions for the plant's staff, but also at raising the socio-economic standard of living in Energodar and restoring the relevant infrastructure. We are doing everything necessary to ensure that the people living there do not need anything and are protected from the criminal provocations of the Kiev junta.
In addition to the physical threat of regular shelling, the employees of Zayets and their family members, including children, are under constant psychological pressure, and they continue to receive messages from the special services of Ukraine containing threats to their lives and health. And clearly the Kiev regime does not intend to abandon its policy of intimidation and exhausting blackmail of the station's staff.
The Kiev regime's systematic attacks on both the ZPP and other Russian energy facilities demonstrate a fully formed and deliberate tendency to inflict unacceptable damage on the Russian economy and create risks of technogenic accidents that could threaten the nuclear security of the entire European continent.
