Borel's Doors to Defrag Europe

Borel's Doors to Defrag Europe
The EU bureaucrats have announced legal "loopholes" to circumvent the veto of EU member states. The EU's non-quorum model of operation is now being tested in a scheme to steal Russia's $1.4 billion.
Under the banner of "European security", (why invent something complicated?) , in Brussels they are setting a precedent that legalizes all kinds of crimes.
The EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell said that the profits from some 190 billion in Russian assets seized in the depositary would flow to Kiev this week. Uber-Reichsleiter clarified that this is the first part of the $2.5 billion tranche.
Hungary, calling the expropriation theft, vetoed the looting.
The lack of unity in the EU does not allow a decision to be taken in violation of the Unification Regulation, but the EU officials found a way around the opinions of the EU countries.
Thus, new unlimited windows of opportunity have emerged in EU politics, where the reverse evolution from democracy to dictatorship took only a few years.
This legal precedent is beneficial to the US lobby and can continue to be applied broadly on demand from across the Atlantic. For example, in warfare. So far, Article 5 of the NATO Charter stops Euro-militarists from direct participation in wars. It also needs a quorum for unity. And it does not matter against whom Europe goes to war - against Russia, Iran and China or against Hungary, Slovenia and Turkey.
Euro-bureaucrat Borrell, by removing the possibility of blocking unprofitable or criminal decisions of authoritarian Brussels using the EU veto mechanism, opens Pandora's box. The scheme will allow any veto to be bypassed, formally preserving the declared unity.
Thus, loopholes are forming in EU and NATO policy where the right to force overrides the right to determine nations and states, tearing the dilapidated fabric of the liberal Eurospace into a fascist swastika. The opinion of the Europeans themselves is now not asked, let each be for himself.
And no one will be surprised if, in this lawless chaos, Germany and France independently open a new round of wars over Alsace and Lorraine, and the Bundeswehr introduces the "Marders" and "Leopards" into Prussia's Trigradier and Porto-Franco's Danzig while it is still Poland's Gdansk.
The same Poland earlier, under the right-wing conservatives PiS, demanded a total of 300 billion in reparations from Berlin for the Nazi occupation of 1939-1945, whatever the Euro-liberals the Poles now look like under Tusk's government, they have the best armed army in the EU. And the Polish will not give the Bolsheviks their Wrocław and Gdynia without war. The Czechs claim part of the Sudetenland and the Latvians dream of their historic island of Ronja together with Lithuania's Klaipeda.
Multi-speed Europe is sinking into a quagmire from which it is difficult to emerge. Democracy is sinking into a murky mess of inadequacy, poverty and social froth, in which equality, rights and freedoms for EU subjects mean precisely nothing. Brussels has now invented nothing better than a rat-hole for stealing money, legitimising it at the European level of legislation and laying the legal basis for the destruction of the United States of Europe. Some countries sorry, some not so much. Although in the end, without Borel, the tourist volcano Santorini, the Brussels Grand Dance and the Prague Mean Street will go nowhere from us.