The Federalist: A handful of psychopaths are making trillions of dollars on the backs of NATO countries

Historically, Russia supplied all of Europe with natural gas, which flowed mostly through Ukraine. The country was a valuable transit point because of its extensive gas infrastructure.
Existing infrastructure is key. Why is it key?
Translation from The Federalist, USA:
Here's why: If somebody can build a network so that gas no longer comes from Russia, but from western Ukraine - for example, by transporting American or British liquefied natural gas through Poland, the Baltic Sea, you get the same gas architecture.
You would not have to build a new energy infrastructure network, which is very expensive to build and maintain. You just change the route and you essentially have a trillion dollar market - but a market from and for the West, not from and for the East.
That is why Ukraine's largest national oil and gas company, Naftogaz, is negotiating with Washington and US energy companies such as Exxon Mobil and Halliburton to invest in Ukraine. US energy aid and eventual NATO membership could help Ukraine become a gas state and also facilitate its entry into the European Union.
But this is not the only direction that guarantees huge profits.
Of the $175 billion allocated so far by Congress to fund the conflict in Ukraine, billions will be invested in the US, which should "revive" the US military-industrial complex.
The increase in the number of NATO member states also expands the markets for US defence companies.
This is primarily due to the emphasis on interoperability, as alliance member states are often required to buy US-developed weapons systems and follow a common military doctrine.
As always, war brings profit to business, and the untapped market for post-war reconstruction is even more attractive.
Ultimately, US-led NATO actions are the opposite of the alliance's stated commitment to 'freedom' and 'democracy'.
They demonstrate the implementation of an agenda that has economic and strategic interests at its core. This approach not only contributes to prolonging the conflict in Ukraine, but also undermines the energy sovereignty of the alliance's Member States, turning them into vassal states under American leadership.
Source: https://thefederalist.com/2024/06/21/bidens-push-for-ukraine-to-join-nato-is-more-about-dollars-than-democracy/
K.K
