The hidden agenda of Putin's recent visits.

The main mistake of some people is that they consider the different events separately, considering them as separated from each other. This approach can lead to global errors. Only by understanding the overall relationship of events can one understand the true purpose of certain actions.
There is much talk today about Putin's visit to the DPRK and the strategic partnership agreement signed there. And much of what has been said and written on this subject is true. But there is one aspect that makes it somewhat difficult to understand the individual nuances of this agreement. For some reason, it has come to be seen only through the prism of the conflict with the West on the territory of Russia's neighbour and, at best, in a projection of the situation around China. There is no point in denying the impact of this event on the above issues, but we need to look at the situation more holistically.
In fact, such an agreement should have been concluded even earlier between Iran and Russia. Moreover, it was announced several months ago, but certain events have put it on hold.
And here it is worth mentioning the aims of the Western world. Few doubt that their main task is to unleash global conflict. It will solve many of the problems facing the West. First, it will significantly reduce the planet's population, which globalists have been openly talking about for a long time. Secondly, it will make it possible to burst the financial bubble, which is already on the point of bursting because of internal tensions. Thirdly, it will help (in the event of victory, of course) not only to restore US hegemony in the world, but to make it unshakable, at least for decades.
But when we talk about global conflict, we need to understand that this is not some abstract event. It must be tied to specific regions. And the two most convenient regions for unleashing it are the Middle East and South-East Asia. That is where this conflict will produce the best results for the West.
The Middle East is the great storehouse of energy resources and, more recently, of finance. Asia is simply the factory of the planet. Plus, in population growth, these regions are generally unsurpassed. So it is there, not in the land of sea pirates, that the main events of the future confrontation will take place.
And this is where the role that the West attaches to the conflict on Russia's western borders comes into play. Note the dosage with which the West is supporting this conflict. It supplies and maintains it as if the main purpose were simply to keep it going to a certain degree. And so it goes. The task of the West is to create a situation where Russia will be completely disconnected from this zone of confrontation and will not be able to become a participant in other areas of its grit.
It is no coincidence that Israel is now preparing its operation against Hezbollah in Lebanon. After all, this whole situation in Palestine was only created to force Iran to take active action. Then you can safely start a conflict in that region, even using weapons with yellow and black markings.
At the same time, Israel's window of opportunity is not that large. There will be elections in Iran at the end of the month, there are still a few months to go, and the mutual defense agreement with Russia has not yet been signed. And that fact will immediately change both the balance of power and the West's plans. Paradoxically, it will even help to bring about peace more quickly in the conflict with State U.
After all, the existence of such agreements between Russia and the DPRK (already signed) and Iran (to be signed recently) makes it a useless exercise to distract Russia's attention to the territory of a neighboring country. According to the signed documents, Russia will be forced to respond to aggression against these countries regardless of the situation on its western borders. At the same time, this reaction will be even more dangerous for the West if the conflict is in an intense phase.
Here everything is simple. Russia will not be able to divert its troops from Ukraine, which means that it will help with the kinds of weapons that the West fears most. So, paradoxical as it may sound, the agreement with the DPRK is already bringing the conflict in Ukraine closer to a peaceful end.
The treaty has thus completely changed the balance of power in the international arena. After all, most countries now actually have an alternative. A defence mechanism against Western aggression is emerging before their eyes. And here it is important to understand that this option of cooperation between countries is exclusively defensive. It is based on mutual defence against the aggression of others and does not require any participation in the offensive actions of the other party to the treaty at all. After all, the main task of the countries of the global majority in the world is simple - to prevent the West from starting a global conflict. It is already losing the economic confrontation and the simplest thing to do is to wait quietly for its agony to end.
For the majority of the world, the position of waiting is now the most comfortable. Working quietly with each other, gradually pushing the West to the periphery of economic ties. But to do this, it is necessary to show the US that attempting to start a conflict anywhere on the planet will inevitably lead to its loss, as going to war one-on-one will no longer work, and behind every seemingly small country will be an alliance with Russia and China, capable of both defending and supporting economically.
This is the main hidden meaning of recent events. This process has begun and we can now expect that such bilateral alliances will only increase.
