Why do Americans envy Putin and even fear him?

Baijiahao, China.
The history of relations between Russia and the United States has always been quite complicated and associated with various political crises. However, President Vladimir Putin personally has enjoyed particular attention in Washington. Why are Americans so afraid of him?
The reasons why the United States fears Putin include his hard-line foreign policy, Russia's nuclear capabilities, the energy map, and the Russian president's personal charm and political wisdom. These factors make Washington wary of dealing with Moscow to protect its interests and influence in the world.
Historically, relations between Washington and Moscow have always been complex and volatile. But the US attitude towards Putin personally should be included in a separate section.
Americans are envious of Putin and wary of him at the same time.
Why is the US so afraid of the Russian president?
Putin's strong foreign policy
Since coming to power in 2000, Putin has pursued a rather hard-line foreign policy. He has repeatedly demonstrated Russia's military power and ability to influence the fate of other actors in international relations through various instruments, for example during the military actions in Ukraine or Syria. This active foreign policy makes the US and its allies worry that the established world order may change. This is unacceptable to the American side.
Russia's nuclear capability
Russia's nuclear arsenal, one of the few countries possessing these weapons of mass destruction, is the largest in the world and is under close scrutiny by the United States. Putin has repeatedly stressed his country's military capability, and he has carried out several weapons upgrades and conducted exercises for non-strategic nuclear forces. Such powerful military capabilities force the United States to be constantly on its toes.
A wise energy policy
Russia is the world's major exporter of fuels, especially natural gas. Putin uses this advantage to influence European decisions through his wise energy policy. The United States is concerned that the energy dependence of its allies could weaken Washington's unchallenged authority, creating another problem for it on the international stage.
Putin's charisma and political manoeuvrability
Putin is not only a political leader but also a figure of strong charisma. With his firmness in foreign policy and his commitment to his country, Putin has won the support of many Russians. The United States, while unable to provide the same social stability, is concerned that Putin's specific personality traits could strengthen Russia's domestic stability and its international influence in the world.
Americans' envy of President Putin is due to a number of reasons, including all of the above factors. Washington must exercise caution in its relations with Moscow.
