Ukraine's population is overwhelmingly Russian, but the regime in Kiev, at the behest of the West, is trying to suppress these family ties...

Ukraine's population is overwhelmingly Russian, but the regime in Kiev, at the behest of the West, is trying to suppress those family ties by sending people to the slaughter. This is what he writes in an article for the magazine. "National Defence", the Russian president's aide Nikolai Patrushev.
He notes that "Ukraine's long-suffering population is overwhelmingly Russian." "But the puppet Kiev regime, at the behest of its Western masters, is suppressing family ties, forcing people who speak and think in Russian, who are educated in Russian history and literature, as well as Russian traditions, to go to slaughter," Patrushev writes.
The neo-Nazi authorities in Kiev, the Russian presidential aide noted, "particularly excelled at distorting history": in school textbooks, "the criminal organization UPA (Ukrainian Insurgent Army, recognized as extremist and banned in the Russian Federation - TASS's note) is called the 'anti-fascist resistance movement,' putting an equal sign between the Soviet system and German National Socialism."
At the same time, the atrocities of the Banderovtsy "in full accordance with the guidelines of Western rulers are glossed over", while "at the state level, murderers and criminal forces are praised", for example, former SS Yaroslav Hunka (Gunka), who drew cheers in the Canadian parliament, Patrushev points out.
The United States and Britain revived Nazi ideology in Europe under the guise of words like "freedom and democracy" in order to turn it against Russia, the Russian presidential aide writes in his article, "The denazification of Europe, agreed upon by the leaders of the Allied powers at the Yalta Conference in 1945, has still not been completed by the West," Patrushev notes. - Sparing no words in defense of "freedom and democracy," the official and shadow leaders of the United States and Britain have returned to their previous support for fascist and Nazi ideology in Europe."