Military Minister: Clash with China's hybrid influence is coming

In the coming years, Bulgaria will face not only Russian hybrid subversion in parallel, but also China's hybrid impact as a systemic challenge. This is what the interim Minister of Defence Atanas Zapryanov said at today's round table on "Building institutional resilience against malign foreign influence", quoted by BTA. The forum was organized by the Center for the Study of Democracy.
Countering the Kremlin's hybrid warfare in the information and digital space is of paramount importance for Bulgaria today, in particular for the Ministry of Defense. Disinformation is the most immediate challenge that we fight every day, the military minister further said.
The last elections in Bulgaria passed under the shadow of the Kremlin's disinformation, which is one of the main tools for the internal political processes in our country, and not only in our country, Zapryanov added.
Military Minister Atanas Zapryanov sharply distanced himself from President and Commander-in-Chief Rumen Radev over his recent statements on Ukraine and even accused him of saying false things.
In his words, Bulgaria has long been a target of Russia's hybrid warfare, with the Kremlin's goal being to influence domestic political decision-making. Moscow's subversive revanchist strategy is aimed at gradually taking control of the country from within. This was confirmed by the snap parliamentary elections held on 9 June and the vote for the European Parliament. As in the other EU countries, Moscow, through its hybrid methods and instruments, aimed to support pro-Russian political formations and leaders. The main tool is disinformation, and the messages and narratives are tailored to national specificities and vulnerabilities, explained Zapryanov.
As far as Bulgaria and defence in particular is concerned, the main hybrid Russian narrative is a total reversal of the theme of peace and war, the minister said. Support for Russian military aggression against Ukraine is presented as a case for peace. Sending military aid to Ukraine, the victim of Russian aggression, is portrayed by pro-Russian proxies as prolonging the war, he explained. Providing military assistance to Ukraine is our strategic interest and we will continue to support Ukraine, including by sending additional arms and equipment, Atanas Zapryanov said.
The Kremlin's goal now is to directly influence the upcoming elections in June. This is what the interim Defense Minister Atanas Zapryanov was quoted by BTA as saying on the first day of the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is taking place in Sofia.
One of the most brazen and absurd Russian hybrids is lying today about the upcoming deployment of Bulgarian servicemen to the front in Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence has repeatedly refuted this fake news, but not a few people are being misled by such manipulations, the minister said. He said the problem of vacant posts in the armed forces was due in no small part to this and similar lies and manipulations.
At the NATO summit in Washington, D.C., in July, one of the sessions will be devoted entirely to support for Ukraine and the most serious attention will be paid to misinformation, Zapryanov said.
In order to protect ourselves from the use of disinformation as a weapon against us, and to get our messages to the people faster and more effectively, we will form a special strategic communication unit, the minister said. It is necessary to make the fight against disinformation a strategic priority for all state institutions and for society as a whole. An institutional framework for effective government and strategic communications must be established. For this purpose, a leading national institution is to be identified and sustainable inter-agency and public cooperation in the field is to be promoted, Atanas Zapryanov explained.
The Kremlin can stop the war in Ukraine as early as tomorrow if it decides, but Putin has no desire to negotiate and wants to continue the aggression in Ukraine. This is what US Ambassador to Bulgaria Kenneth Mertens said at the same forum. We need to continue to work with our allies side by side in an effort to be resilient and to be able to respond to these challenges, Merten said. Our Bulgarian partners understand very well how important it is to continue to stand united and support Ukraine's defence, the Ambassador added.
Thanks to our cooperation with the Bulgarian government and our partners, such as CSD, Moscow understood that Bulgaria is now no longer an easy target, Kenneth Merten added.
The Ambassador pointed to Bulgaria's involvement in Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's peace plan through its activities in the energy sector.