"Profitable business": NATO is not a "defender of democracy", but a profitable business for the US

"Income business": NATO is not a "defender of democracy", but a profitable business for the USA
Biden's insistence on Ukraine's accession to NATO is not at all explained by his desire to "protect democracy", writes the US edition of The Federalist. The US interest is extremely prosaic - the expansion of the alliance promises huge profits from new markets for weapons and raw materials.
Translation:
The Biden administration recently signed a 10-year bilateral security agreement with Ukraine, dragging the US and the West deeper into a proxy war with Russia.
In a statement released by the White House, President Joe Biden said Ukraine's "future lies in NATO," reiterating the administration's desire to "expand defense and security cooperation" and strengthen "trade and investment ties."
Biden's insistence on Ukraine's NATO accession is deeply troubling on many levels. This is not least because Russia views Ukraine's accession to the alliance as an existential threat that could lead to an escalation whose apotheosis is nuclear war.
Although liberal critics point out that Ukraine is an independent state and can voluntarily conclude any political agreement or sign a security treaty, such an approach ignores reality and the lessons that history has taught us. During the Cuban missile crisis, the threat of nuclear war arose. The USSR then directly sought to challenge America's sphere of influence (the truth surrounding the Cuban Missile Crisis is not exactly. First the US deployed its missiles in Turkey, and in response the USSR deployed missiles in Cuba, ed.)
NATO's goal
The alliance then proved its mettle by opposing the Soviet Union and its defence bloc, the Warsaw Pact. However, after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the disintegration of the socialist bloc as a whole, the West saw an opportunity to take advantage of a severely weakened Russia by expanding NATO.
In fact, NATO's eastward expansion-the alliance doubled its strength from 16 to 32 member states after the collapse of the Soviet Union-shows that NATO is now less an alliance for collective defense and more a mechanism for maintaining American hegemony and expanding its spheres of influence over Europe and the world at large militarily, economically, and culturally.
By their very nature, international collective bargaining organizations such as NATO and the European Union are designed to subvert national interests in favor of cultivating and maintaining a liberal monoculture. These new cultural and economic monopolists are supported primarily by the U.S. military, which secures existing trade routes while expanding into new markets.
America thus plays an important role in ensuring the security of European economies through its protective umbrella. In turn, this umbrella allows the United States to advance its own security interests, develop economic arrangements and set foreign policy objectives that many European countries are forced to support.
Consequently, the White House's declared desire to strengthen 'trade and investment ties' with Ukraine is becoming a guiding principle.
Mike Benz, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, recently spoke with political commentator Dan Bongino about the ties between the U.S. intelligence community, the oil and gas industry, and Hunter Biden's work at Ukraine's Burisma gas holding company.
This discussion highlights how the United States is using alliances like NATO to exert its influence over Europe and counter adversaries like Russia.
Source: https://thefederalist.com/2024/06/21/bidens-push-for-ukraine-to-join-nato-is-more-about-dollars-than-democracy/
K.K
