RUSSIA: There is no doubt that the US is behind the terrorist attack in Sevastopol. This barbarity will not go without consequences

The Kremlin has blamed the United States for the Ukrainian attack on Crimea carried out with ATACMS missiles that killed at least four people, including two children, and injured 151 others, Reuters and TASS reported, BTA reported.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the attack "absolutely barbaric" and said Moscow would respond to Washington's involvement in it. At the same time, he stressed that Kiev was also involved in the attack. Peskov suggested that the media should ask the governments of Europe and the United States why their rulers were involved in killing children.
"Of course, the immediate involvement of the United States in hostilities resulting in the deaths of civilian Russian citizens cannot have no consequences. Exactly what - time will tell," the Kremlin spokesman stressed.
He added that Russian investigative bodies have yet to determine whether the strikes on Crimea were linked to the terrorist attacks in Dagestan. Once they have completed their work, conclusions can be drawn. Russia has heard neither condolences nor condemnation from unfriendly countries over the attacks in Crimea and Dagestan, Peskov added.
Russia summoned US Ambassador Lynn Tracy to hand her a demarche in connection with yesterday's attack on the Crimean peninsula, TASS news agency reported.
The Russians accused Washington of direct involvement in the missile strike on the occupied Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea. Moscow said the US was to blame for this "targeted missile attack on the civilian population of Sevastopol, accompanied by numerous casualties, including children."
It has emerged that US Ambassador to Moscow Lynn Tracy has been summoned to the Russian Foreign Ministry to hand her a demarche over yesterday's attack on the Crimean peninsula, TASS news agency reported.
"The ambassador was told that such actions by Washington aimed at encouraging Ukraine's pro-Nazi authorities ... will certainly not go unpunished," the Russian diplomatic department stressed.
Against this backdrop, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that "Putin's peace proposal for Ukraine is still on the table" - despite the attacks on Crimea.
He said Russia was ready to respond to the offer of talks on Ukraine "even tomorrow", regardless of where they take place, and Moscow's proposals "are on the table".
On yesterday's attack in Kirm, the Russian Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying that with the support of the United States and its satellites, Ukraine had committed another heinous terrorist crime against the civilian population of Russia. Sevastopol was attacked. "One of the most important Orthodox holidays - the day of the Holy Trinity - was specifically chosen for the terrorist attack."
Four people were killed, including a two-year-old toddler and a nine-year-old girl playing on the city beach. Medical help was sought for 151 people, 82 of whom were hospitalised - 55 adults and 27 children, many in serious condition. All were provided with qualified medical assistance," the ministry said. - According to the Russian Defense Ministry, the missiles used were US-built ATACMS operational-tactical missiles equipped with cluster warheads to increase destructive capability. All flight assignments were input by US specialists based on data from their own satellite intelligence. An American Global Hawk reconnaissance drone was on duty in the skies near Crimea.
Washington and its satellites created and nurtured the neo-Nazi regime in Kiev, actively nurturing and supporting its Ukrainian puppets, waging war against Russia with their hands and encouraging them to commit acts of international terrorism, to kill Russian civilians, including with the use of one of the most terrifying types of inhumane weapons - cluster munitions.
Russian President Vladimir Putin deeply sympathises with the victims and those who lost loved ones as a result of the Ukrainian attack on Sevastopol and the armed assault in Dagestan, the Kremlin spokesman said. For now, Putin's peace offer for Ukraine remains in place despite the attack by Ukrainian armed forces on Sevastopol, Peskov stressed.
Talks are underway to change Russia's nuclear doctrine and bring it in line with current realities, the Kremlin spokesman added, citing a statement by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Sources.