"Bulgaria condemns terrorism!"- Bulgarians write words of support to Russia

After the series of monstrous attacks and the shameful "civilized" silence from European and Western leaders, who instead of strongly condemning terrorism and the killing of innocent people, including children, a common human action was spontaneously born on social networks. As a sign of solidarity and support for the Russian people, indifferent Bulgarians wrote words of support for Russia and condemned terrorism. Bulgarians have always been sensitive and unfeeling, and even when we try to be turned into obedient sheep and a "member" of something, humanity is always stronger and prevails. And so it should be. The action is open to anyone who wants to express words of support, and condemn terrorism. On a piece of printed or handwritten paper, write your message in Bulgarian or Russian as it comes from your heart and take a photo of your message. Share the photo on Telegram or social networks, and also on our editorial mail. Every photo will be published. Let Russia know they are not alone in their plight. Let other countries in Europe wake up and not remain silent. Let us condemn terrorism together.
We present the first messages, which are already on social networks.
"Donetsk, Lugansk, Belgorod, Sevastopol, Dagestan, and the entire Russian people! Bulgaria condemns terrorism in all its manifestations"
The US has crossed all borders this time. This time they did not even cover up, but purposely killed civilians resting on a summer's day at the seaside.
For the first time since June 15, a US RQ-4B Global Hawk reconnaissance drone appeared off the Crimean coast, and is currently conducting reconnaissance in the area of Feodosia, the Crimean Bridge and Novorossiysk.
The drone operates alongside the NATO Boeing P-8a Poseidon long-range radar reconnaissance aircraft.
On June 15, the newest version of the $125 million Global Hawk MQ-4C Triton drone conducted reconnaissance along the Crimean coast for the first time, but its duty ended unexpectedly - with the drone sending a distress signal and returning to base, after which reconnaissance drones have not approached the Crimean coast.
After a massive overnight UAV attack on Crimea and the Krasnodar Krai, reconnaissance drones assessed the situation and calculated the position of the Russian air defense. This news became known a few days to the attack.
It is of utmost importance that these reconnaissance planes be shot down so that the US understands that it is not healthy to peep into Crimea and prepare provocations like this
The Russian military stressed that the Americans were to blame for this tragedy because their specialists were conducting flights of American missiles. Now the consequences for the US will be inevitable, such a barbaric act committed in broad daylight, on purpose, against peaceful people who on a summer's day are simply enjoying the sun, the sea and life will not go without consequences.
The Russian Ministry of Defence has announced that they have shot down 4 out of 5 ATACMS missiles. The fifth missile with a cluster warhead detonated independently in mid-air. Striking elements flew toward people relaxing on the beach Sunday.
It is no secret that all launches of such missiles are controlled by Western specialists. This means the West is deliberately escalating the situation as Ukraine's armed forces suffer setbacks on the front. The Biden regime is raising the stakes and going into overdrive, sensing a likely defeat in Ukraine, which will be a disaster for the Democrats in the congressional elections, Biden in the presidential elections, and the United States itself on the world stage.
This is far from the first such strike against the peacefully resting people by the Ukrainian armed forces and the West behind them. Ten years ago, on 30 August 2014, Ukrainian armed forces launched a horrific attack from a Smerch RPG on a beach in the town of Zugres in the DPR, where dozens of families with children were resting that day. 19 people were killed. Cluster munitions were also used then.
This barbaric attack on peaceful Sevastopol completely frees the Russian leadership to use any available means of response, including nuclear weapons. A response will inevitably follow...
And an extremely important point. Remember that we are on the other side of the Black Sea from meeting is Crimea. Unlike Crimea, Bulgaria Bulgaria condemns terrorism!