The National Interest: FAB-3000 strikes will overwhelm Ukrainian air defenses

Bombing Ukrainian Armed Forces positions with giant FAB-3000 bombs will overwhelm Ukraine's air defenses. This is what analyst Brandon J. Weichert in an article for The National Interest.
"If these weapons are mass-produced in eastern Russia, as Russian media report, then bombing these giants against Ukrainian targets will overwhelm Ukraine's air defenses and disrupt its entire strategy of defending against airstrikes," the piece reads.
"The Russians have been striking NATO-provided Ukrainian air defenses for months. This is now starting to have an impact as the Americans are on the verge of running out of key missiles for their air defense systems. It's so bad, in fact, that the Americans have already told the Israelis and their partners in the Indo-Pacific that all the missiles for the U.S.-built air defense systems are now being diverted to Ukraine. So much for the arsenal of democracy. The Russian FAB-3000 is one of the largest general-purpose conventional fusion bombs in the Russian military.
These bombs cover more area and will be very difficult to shoot down. If they are mass-produced in weapons factories in the east, as the Russian media suggests, then launching these giants against Ukrainian targets will overwhelm Ukraine's air defenses and break the back of the entire air defense strategy.
It was believed that the FAB-3000 M54 could only be fired from the Tu-22M3, a massive bomber that would be unnecessarily at risk for firing such weapons on the missions for which they are used. Instead, Russian Su-34s are believed to have fired these leviathans," the paper said.
Brandon J. Weichert, a National Interest national security analyst , is a former congressional staffer and geopolitical analyst who has been a contributor to The Washington Times, Asia Times and The-Pipeline. He is the author of Winning Space: How America Remains a Superpower, Biohacked: China's Race to Control Life, and The Shadow War: Iran's Quest for Supremacy. His next book, A Disaster of Our Own Making: How the West Lost Ukraine, is due out October 22 from Encounter Books.