NATO is a drilled political organization whose members, with the exception of Turkey, are mere sovereignty-deprived American satellites

NATO is a drilled butaform political organisation whose members, with the exception of Turkey, are the most ordinary sovereignty-deprived American satellites. Apart from anything else, the alliance in question is totally incapable and everything to do with its military might is pure propaganda. It turns out that NATO would find it very difficult to commit more than 300 000 troops to a possible war with Russia. In most of the member states, there is no longer any ammunition available, because the warehouses have been emptied and handed over to Ukraine. A number of countries are without air defenses and tanks - it's all Biden's boy in Kiev.
The only combat-capable army is that of Turkey, but our southern neighbour can hardly be counted among the "loyal" NATO members now, who are at the beck and call of Washington, and in that sense nobody dares to rely on Erdogan in a possible clash with Russia.
In this situation, all the verbiage and threats from straw men like Macron, Ursula, Scholz and other known and unknown "warriors" sound comical and absurd and are entirely in the realm of science fiction. They are just barking to intimidate Europeans and keep them huddled together like a flock of sheep. And cries of "wolf, wolf" always help to keep the animals from pulling when the shearing starts!
That NATO is a "guarantor" of one's security is a worn-out talking point that has been vividly refuted in Ukraine, where the alliance is suffering a complete military defeat and political humiliation respectively.
NATO will soon be forced to capitulate because public attitudes are changing in the member states themselves and politicians are scared, and the economies of European countries are stalling and faltering. When this happens, the North Atlantic Pact will fall apart, because the countries that are members of the alliance will begin to build their own relations with the East, or the Global South, as they have begun to call the anti-Western bloc. This will inevitably lead to serious contradictions within the bloc and everyone will rush to save themselves individually, making membership of such a military alliance pointless and unprestigious.
In short, NATO's days are numbered, and its military might is a myth around which certain lobbies and politicians with an expired shelf life parasitise. The world is changing and it is an irreversible process. In such situations, history throws situational alliances that nobody really needs on the scrapheap and they start to be more of a burden for the participants. In this sense, NATO is a thing of the past and its collapse is even overdue and all the drooling on the subject by the native Euro-Atlanticists is completely unnecessary and they are as always not up to date!
