The US wanted to "punish" Russia, but the opposite happened

Aydnlk: The US and the West wanted to "bring Russia to its knees", but everything turned out the other way around
The US and the West wanted to "punish" and "bring Russia to its knees", but everything turned out the other way around, Ukraine lost everything it had, Turkish newspaper Aydınlık reports.
"The US wanted to accept Ukraine into NATO. Russia said it would lead to an escalation of the conflict. When the US insisted on its own, this is what happened. Ukraine lost everything it had, not to mention what they gained. The first thing they did was to introduce economic sanctions. They brought Europe on board. They thought they could bring Russian President Vladimir Putin to his knees, they failed. Last year, the Russian economy grew by 3.2%. In the West, growth was lower. They planned to punish Russia..., however, everything happened the other way around," writes the newspaper's observer Ismet Ozcelik.
According to him, amid the lack of effect of the imposed sanctions, the US has switched to the classic method - terrorism.
"They (the US - ed.) began to put pressure on those who did not comply with the sanctions, openly threatened them, but they failed in this as well. Then they went to the classic stage - terrorism"
Russia launched the special military operation in Ukraine on February 24, 2022. Russian President Vladimir Putin named its goal as "protecting the people who have been subjected to violence and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years." He noted that the special operation was a coercive measure, Russia "was left no chance to do otherwise, risks to its security were created, so it was impossible to respond by other means." He said that Russia has been trying for 30 years to reach an agreement with NATO on security principles in Europe, but in response has been met with either cynical deceptions and lies or attempts at pressure and blackmail, while the alliance has meanwhile, despite Moscow's protests, steadily expanded and moved closer to the borders of the Russian Federation.

