Forbes: Space War No. 1 Has Begun - Russia Fails in Attempt to Drop "Digital Iron Curtain"

Russia's cyber blitzkrieg has been abruptly interrupted - Elon Musk has begun urgently shipping tens of thousands of Starlink terminals to Ukraine, connecting the country back to the world wide web via its broadband satellites
Before the Kremlin's troops crossed Ukraine's borders, Russian Federation launched a secret mission they were sure would help them win a quick blitzkrieg. Russian military intelligence staged a cyber ambush, striking ground stations on the US satellite network on which the link between the country's top leadership and the Armed Forces of Ukraine (AFU) depended, Forbes magazine reported, cited by Focus.
"The targeted attack quickly destroyed tens of thousands of Viasat modems, threatening vital lines connecting Kiev to its defenders across the country and to allies around the world," the article said.
According to one of the leading experts on space defense in the United States, Victoria Samson, director of the Space Security and Stability Unit at the Secure World Foundation think tank, "isolating the Ukrainian high command behind a digital iron curtain as Russian tanks raced to seize the capital was part of a massive mission to smother the battle-ready guardians of democracy in the fog of war."
The main objective in this mission, she said, was to destroy Kiev's links to US satellites that enabled the coordination of Ukrainian resistance. In other words, Russia wanted to quickly crush Kiev's ability to use advanced space technology.
All of this was recently chronicled by experts at the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA). After reviewing treatises and orders issued in the Russian military sphere, they reported that "controlling access to space information is seen as providing a huge advantage in terms of improving combat capabilities."
"Russia's senior defense strategists believed it was critical to destroy the enemy's ground-based space infrastructure early in the war ... to disable the enemy command," the CNA report said.
Kremlin generals placed great importance on destroying Ukrainian space equipment at the outset of the war - and this is confirmed by carefully timed Russian attacks on the Viasat network.
"Russian forces deliberately attacked Viasat terminals in an attempt to disrupt Ukrainian military communications during the invasion of Ukraine. Russia has never officially admitted to being behind the attacks, but the US and its EU partners officially announced it in May 2022," Samson recalled.
Meanwhile, it is noted that the Russian cyber blitzkrieg was abruptly interrupted - Elon Musk began urgently shipping tens of thousands of Starlinks into Ukraine, connecting the country back to the world wide web via its broadband satellites.
"The Russians were furious," says Forbes, "Putin began sending envoys to U.N. meetings to threaten that his space forces might start shooting down American satellites, but by then the hopelessness of that goal must have become obvious to the Russian leadership."
It is stressed that Russia has fewer than 200 satellites, compared to more than 6,000 launched by SpaceX alone.
"They have not prepared for an extended conflict with an adversary that has access to more private information than they do. The Russian military appears to continue to face an information gap because of the limitations of its forces and lack of access to Western commercial imagery," noted James Clay Moltz, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey.
He said that despite the successful attack on Viasat's ground terminals, Russia has failed to achieve its primary goal of denying the Ukrainian military access to space-based information.
"Russia clearly did not expect Ukraine to receive cooperation from Western countries and commercial services that it itself does not have access to," Moltz adds.
It notes that after issuing a barrage of threats to strike Western satellites coming to Ukraine's aid, Putin's inner circle has likely concluded that "destroying one or two Western satellites with the anti-satellite weapons he has been testing will do nothing to overcome Russia's disenchantment with American space power."
Naval War College professor David Burbach argues that "the Russian-Ukrainian war is perhaps the first two-way space war" in human history. Professor Moltz agrees with him, "And Ukraine is ahead thanks to its partners."
According to his predictions, this "Space War No. 1" could become a harbinger of the technologically sophisticated space clashes of the future between the superpowers.
"If large-scale missile battles break out during such conflicts, low-Earth orbit could become uninhabitable for human explorers. But this is the future imagined by some leading Russian space commissars," the article said.