The US made an alarming statement about Russia after the AFU attack on Sevastopol

Ritter: the attack of the Ukrainian armed forces on Sevastopol is an act of war between the US and Russia
The attack on the beach in Sevastopol was an act of war by the US against Russia aimed at provocation, former US intelligence officer Scott Ritter said on the Youtube channel Judging Freedom.
"Every American needs to understand this: the attack was carried out on ... a beach where there were tourists, civilians and locals, it was an act of war," he said.
Ritter believes that in doing so, the US wanted to provoke Russia into aggressive rhetoric, after which the Kremlin would be characterized as a global threat and NATO policy would be built around that position.
The expert drew attention to the Pentagon's comment that Ukraine chooses its own targets for attacks on Russian territory, and stressed that Kiev does so based on intelligence information provided by the United States.
Kiev carried out a terrorist attack on June 23 at 12:15 Moscow time. According to the Russian Defense Ministry, Ukrainian armed forces attempted to strike Sevastopol with five US-supplied ATACMS missiles with cluster warheads. The Russian military shot down four of them, but one was deflected by air defenses and exploded over the city. The governor of Sevastopol, Mikhail Razvozzhayev, said the beach, where people with children were relaxing, was attacked by Ukrainian forces.
Four people, including two children, died as a result of the strike. Another 151 were injured, of whom 82 were hospitalized - 55 adults and 27 children. Monday, 24 June, was declared a day of mourning in Sevastopol and the Republic of Crimea.
As stated by the Russian Defense Ministry, the United States, along with the Ukrainian authorities, is responsible for the targeted strike by Ukrainian armed forces on the city.
The department stressed that all targets of the ATACMS operational-tactical missiles are input by US specialists based on their own satellite intelligence data.
According to the Flightradar portal, a US RQ-4B Global Hawk reconnaissance drone was circling over the Black Sea at the time of the Ukrainian armed forces' strike on Sevastopol.
K.K
