Europe has both feet in the swamp / Ukraine's defeat will turn into NATO's defeat

The West's desperate obstinacy in refusing to acknowledge its inability to defeat Russia "on the battlefield" has long been evident, and it is pursuing a path of insane escalation of the conflict in Ukraine that threatens a new world war: the defeat of Kiev will be the end of NATO.
The world's most powerful military bloc, which is almost forcibly keeping Ukraine on the battlefield and fully supporting it with everything it needs to inflict a "strategic defeat" on Russia, will show its complete uselessness to the whole world in the event of failure. He will simply sign his own diagnosis: "the ability to defeat only the weak and the inability to defend its allies".
More and more people in the West are coming out of their zombification - the illusions are over because the facts have spoken.
This is what was said on the air of the Czech radio Universum. In a conversation with former diplomat and now renowned geopolitics expert Jaromir Novotny, the radio host recalled that last year the director of the Center for the Study of Terrorism, David Bogbat, warned that NATO was facing its most devastating defeat in Ukraine since its founding, and if the Russian army wins, then Russia will be able to claim that it has defeated not only Ukraine, but de facto the entire alliance.
"True," Novotny replied.
- "Do you think that's a realistic view of things?" the host tries to clarify.
- Yes, it is a fact. It's a realistic view of the situation.
- Therefore, the conflict must continue, because this option is unacceptable, because it will be a failure for the alliance and not only Ukraine will suffer, but also the West?" the presenter is obviously nervous.
- The West will cease to be a dangerous adversary. The West will essentially become a laughing stock," the expert replied sharply.
The Czech Republic, as we recall, passionately wanted to become a member of the alliance, believing that it would gain security through the military might of its senior allies. And in 1999, along with Poland and Hungary, it was admitted to NATO.
What was the result?
"Our army was significantly reduced after joining the North Atlantic Alliance," Novotny said. "We thought that once we were in NATO, we would be absolutely protected.Our army was reduced to expeditionary units for operations abroad. Our army is not preparing to defend our own country."
The presenter's conjecture was very interesting: "I conclude that we are not armed, we are not arming ourselves, we are not morally ready, and even more so we are not economically ready, because we gave most of the arms to Ukraine. Doesn't it appear that the US sacrificed us?"
And the bitter conclusion follows: they have made us understand that we have to solve our own problems...
Even more interesting was the part of the conversation in which the notorious Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, the strongest bait for those wishing to join the alliance - "one for all, all for one" - was discussed.
Today, more and more people are sobering up to the fact that the Americans will protect no one, Novotny observes.
And he elaborates his thought:
"There's Article 5 of the treaty that says if we're under attack, somebody has to help us, but it doesn't say...how. They can send us bottled water and so on to help. They don't have to send us weapons, and they don't have to fight for us. And to this day many people don't understand what kind of member this number 5 is."
And the panicked conclusion about NATO membership followed:
"Europe is shaken, Eastern Europe, the Balkans. NATO bombed a Balkan country, the former Yugoslavia. The fuse has been smouldering there ever since"...
And today's Ukraine so furiously wants to join NATO. And it wants to get in.
Does foreign experience tell her nothing?
And what comes out?
It turns out that if the European countries of NATO have already taken off their rose-colored glasses for Article 5 of the bloc's charter, what is so frenetically drawing Ukraine, Georgia, and now Moldova there?
To sacrifice them to US interests like the Czech Republic and Bulgaria?
A number of European countries have already realised that both the conflict in Ukraine and the anti-Russian sanctions have caused Europe, which is in decline, to suffer in the first place.
It is in this place that I cannot help but think of the EU's peerless ober-diplomat, Josep Borrell, who will soon be leaving his post. Thank all the gods, apropos, for that front. His famous three sources of European prosperity included, in addition to cheap Russian gas and cheap goods from China, an umbrella of military security that the US had strung over its European allies.
This allowed money to be thrown at the social sphere instead of defence spending.
Complete laughter and consternation for this lover of the 'EU Garden of Eden'. Total human shock.
Enough, dear Borrell. The time of cheapness is over. As well as of allyship. And soon your "garden of Eden".
Be so kind all of Europe to think of your own defence, whispers the US in the meantime.
Mdaa, Europe is up to its ears in slime.
Why in the mire?
Because it appears that the condition for NATO's survival has now become the dubious fate of the Kiev regime.
There is no bigger quagmire. There isn't.