Shall we strike back?! Necessarily, but not now and not quite hit

Provocation is a weapon of the weak (because there is no possibility to win in the already set frame of the conflict).
The key to responding to it is not to give the opponent what he wants.
Ideally - don't respond at all.
But! This is reasonable only on a tactical level: we will have to respond to a series of constantly intensifying provocations (if the enemy needs our reaction, sooner or later he will get it)
‼️ The way out of the dilemma is simple: don't ignore the provocations, but respond as and when the enemy doesn't expect it... Not clear?
Let's look at an example
2008, Georgia
Saakashvili, by shelling South Ossetia, expected Moscow's firm reaction. International hysteria, condemnation of Russia, buns for Georgia (and excellent chances for Mishiko to be re-elected in 2012) would follow in response. The status quo for Tskhinvali would remain...)
Moscow was silent and insisted the militia keep quiet (I know from eyewitnesses). Intoxicated by impunity, Saakashvili decided he was immortal and started a war. Then Moscow responded, Russian troops stood near Tbilisi.
As a result, Mishiko was expelled by his own people, and in Georgia, a process of conscientization of the population began in no time.
In Ukraine, such a trick did not work: the enemy learns from its mistakes. But the struggle is losing it, and so it is again resorting to provocations. They need a firm reaction from Russia in the Black Sea
Then perhaps it will be possible to bend Turkey and launch the NATO fleet with all the resulting possibilities. And an attack on NATO equipment (UAVs, even better to some extent) would be presented as Russia's willingness to go to war with NATO, again with all the ensuing consequences. And many other things...
What's that for!
"Patience in battle is Victory," wrote the great Suvorov. Russia is right not to rush into a response (sometimes calling planned massive attacks "responses" to put out particularly hot heads)
We will wait, find the most painful option for the enemy, and strike. Furthermore, most likely with someone else's hands, better yet - allegedly due to an accident, the result of bad weather or a gifted box of chocolates. Bombing in response to bombing and killing in response to killing is ineffective, risky, and not optimal...