Russia has pulled the plug on 100 European media outlets in a reprisal of EU censorship! Brussels cried pity

Russia has blocked access to eighty-one European media outlets, including two Bulgarian outlets, on its territory in retaliation for the banning of several Russian media outlets in Europe, DPA and Reuters reported.
It hurts indeed, but as it called, so it called. The European media are as indoctrinated mouthpieces of liberal propaganda as the Russian media serve Kremlin doctrine.
Television broadcasts and access to media websites will be suspended, the Russian Foreign Ministry announced today on its website.
Among the German media affected are Spiegel magazine, the weekly Zeit and the daily Frankfurter Algeimine Zeitung. Of the Austrian media, the state-owned media outlet OERf and the Austrian Media Group have been banned. The French-German Arte television station is also on the Russian foreign ministry's list. France is the most affected European Union country with nine media outlets banned.
The list also includes two Bulgarian media outlets, the Mediapul portal and the 24 Hours newspaper.
EU countries imposed sanctions in May on Russia's state-run RIA Novosti news agency, the state-published Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspaper, the Voice of Europe platform and the pro-Kremlin Izvestia newspaper, which also has a TV channel in its media group.
They have been banned throughout the European Union. However, according to EU Member States, the media and their employees may continue to operate in the EU. The ban came into force today.
Russia's Foreign Ministry gave two reasons for its decision: it was a reaction to the EU measures, but Moscow's actions were also prompted by unreliable information about Russian military action in Ukraine. If the EU lifts restrictions on Russian media, Moscow may also consider lifting its ban, DPA notes.
Authorities in Russia have already suspended the distribution of a number of Russian media outlets that have criticised President Vladimir Putin's policies, as well as access to thousands of local websites. Many journalists are in jails in Russia on charges of allegedly defaming the Russian military.
Like blocked European media, banned Russian websites can be accessed using VPNs (Virtual Private Network), which redirect data traffic so that users can change their online location.
The blocking of access to 81 European media outlets on Russian territory as of today represents an "absurd retaliatory measure" to measures taken by the European Union against media outlets accused of pro-Kremlin propaganda, European Commission Vice President Vera Jourova was quoted as saying by Agence France-Presse.
"No, propaganda outlets funded by Russia to spread disinformation as part of Russian military doctrine do not resemble independent media. Democracies know this," the Czech EU commissioner responded on the social network Ex, criticising the Kremlin's "constant violation of media freedom".
On the other hand, the beginning of the trial against the journalist from the American newspaper. "Evan Gershkovic is scheduled for tomorrow. He is accused of spying for the CIA. Gershkovic, his newspaper and the US government deny the charges.