Ryabkov: Ukraine will never become NATO member

Ukraine will never become a NATO member, I hope Mr Stoltenberg understands that, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov said in an interview with TASS. In his words, the Ukraine peace conference held last week in Switzerland was just a "family photo." "It was important to line up on the podium and take pictures. But it turned out poorly because the line-up was very limited - half the family did not attend, and almost no one came from distant relatives. The level of the forum in Switzerland did not at all meet the expectations of its Ukrainian organisers and the Americans behind them," Ryabkov said.
Asked to comment on Stoltenberg's words that Ukraine would join NATO as soon as it defeated Russia, Ryabkov was adamant: "So it will never happen. I hope Mr Stoltenberg understands that. He knows better than I how the famous decision of 2008 was prepared, when NATO leaders at the highest level signed a document that Ukraine would become a NATO member. That was the big reason for the crisis in our relations with the West that we are witnessing today. If the members of NATO are prepared to continue to tread this oar and their unfortunate experience so far teaches them nothing, then they will get another blow on the forehead with the handle of that same oar. And each time their bruises will get worse ... with a tendency to coma," the Russian deputy foreign minister said. So you think Ukraine will never become a NATO member, the TASS journalist asks, to which Ryabkov replies, "That is completely out of the question."
In his words, the Ukraine peace conference held last week in Switzerland was a "family photo." "It was important to line up on the podium and take a picture. But it turned out poorly, because the line-up was very limited - half the family didn't attend, and almost no one came from distant relatives. The level of the forum in Switzerland did not at all meet the expectations of its Ukrainian organizers and the Americans behind them," Ryabkov said.
"The president (Vladimir Putin) spoke very specifically and clearly about the parameters of the settlement of the conflict, which we are ready to accept and under which it is possible to resume the negotiations that broke off in 2022. They have it on paper, they can turn to this position of ours at any moment," the Russian deputy foreign minister continued. "The president has listed exhaustively what should be done and how. And the road map is on the table, let them read these proposals and understand their logic and then react. So far that has not happened. So far we have heard nothing but denial of these proposals. Naturally, in the conditions of this total negativism and anti-Russian madness, what can our participation in any future meetings a la Bürgenstock be about?" asked Ryabkov.
Referring to the G7 leaders' decision to provide Ukraine with $50 billion from the interest on Russian assets frozen by European banks, the diplomat said that "this is an outrageous decision any way you look at it. Most striking is the cynicism with which these people are discussing an obvious case of theft. This is property that they have stolen and are now disposing of. Meanwhile, these quasi-high-ranking figures demonstrate a complete unwillingness to call things by their real names. On the contrary, they are trying to provide some legal basis for their theft. Orwell is just taking a breather, he wouldn't actually think such a thing. It's just an indication of the morality that dominates their society. The civilizational decline of the entire so-called West is most pronounced in this group. The Group of Seven demonstrates a complete disregard for the norms of coexistence on our planet. These people are prepared to do anything to maintain their quasi-monopoly on finance and the banking system, and to continue to dictate to those who do not suit them for whatever reason, their notorious rules on the basis of which they have hitherto maintained a world order from which they have supported themselves economically and financially. But this is not a world order, it is chaos."
"In order to implement their plans to maintain hegemony, they must necessarily encroach on Russia. And in this blind hatred of our country, they have completely obliterated everything that was supposedly an absolutely unshakable foundation in their Western societies. Private property, other people's property is always sacrosanct. Now they have crossed it all out. I'm sure the world majority, the Global South and the rest of the non-Western countries are drawing their conclusions accordingly. If this continues, more and more people will simply be afraid to have any relations with this group," the Russian deputy foreign minister stressed.