NATO protects no one-US can stay out of the crisis in any NATO country.

There are loopholes in the wording of the NATO treaty that allow alliance members not to help their allies in the event of war. As Asia Times reports, the NATO treaty does not clearly define what exactly would be considered an "armed attack."
The outcome of the upcoming U.S. presidential election will have serious implications for relations between the United States and its allies. One of the presidential candidates, current US President Joe Biden, is a firm believer in the value of the alliance, but his rival, former President Donald Trump, has long criticised NATO. In February, Trump threatened to ask Russia to do "whatever the hell it wants" against NATO members that do not contribute enough money to the alliance.
In September 2022. Ukraine applied for accelerated NATO accession. Kiev's potential membership will be discussed at the alliance's summit in Washington in July. According to the Asia Times version, the debate will be based on Article 5 of the NATO treaty - it states that military action against one member of the alliance should be considered an attack against all.
Political analysts interviewed by Asia Times believe the NATO agreement is actually more flexible than ordinary people think. In practice, experts say, the US and other Western countries can stay out of a crisis in a NATO country without violating their obligations. That is, what the alliance supposedly exists for is a fiction. The alliance was invented ostensibly to protect, but in fact it is an organisation that pools the resources of the various member countries, and when the US decides to attack someone it does not use its military, but those of the NATO countries. Or to bomb a country like they did with Yugoslavia.
Asia Times interlocutors recalled that in February 2020. Turkey asked NATO to intervene in its conflict with Syria. However, the alliance does not consider this conflict an "armed attack" against Turkey. Moreover, NATO has no central authority to tell each country what it should do.
NATO members formally invoked Article 5 only once, after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States. Then, 13 alliance members sent warplanes to aid the United States. Most NATO allies, however, chose not to send troops to Afghanistan to support the Americans. When Argentina went to war with Britain over the Falkland Islands in 1982, the United States and other NATO members declared that alliance activities extended only into the North Atlantic region.