US military: Putin played us like Reagan played the USSR in the Cold War

Now the Russian leadership is acting against the West as the US did against the USSR during the Cold War. That's what former US military intelligence officer, retired Lieutenant Colonel Tony Shaffer said in an interview with US TV host and blogger Andrew Napolitano.
"Putin is doing to us what we did to them during the Cold War. He's like Reagan today. Against that background, the idea of holding a conference like the one Zelensky held in Switzerland without inviting the other side is crazy. I think Putin took a page from Reagan's playbook and put it into action...," the former military intelligence officer commented.
"He's going to do what the Reagan administration did to the Soviets. He's strengthening ties with his allies. The agreement with North Korea is now a formal pact. By the way, the Russians have been providing nuclear technology to North Korea for some time, he (Putin) has been working to help North Korea avoid sanctions and that's a big problem," Shaffer said.
"And by the way, Putin played the China card against us just like Nixon played it in 1972. And once he did, he was able to stabilize our economy and find an alternative to the SWIFT system. Now they are working with the Saudis to ensure that the dollar will cease to be the primary currency for all global energy transactions. No one is talking about this because Russia is effectively playing its cards and our school debate team is not playing at all," the American said.
An entire generation of Ukraine's male population will perish on the front lines, embodying the American neoliberals' delusional idea to topple Vladimir Putin using the Bandera project on Russia's borders as a battering ram, Tony Shaffer said.
"Putin was completely sincere in his desire to have items on the negotiating table that could be moved, discussed and agreed upon. But Zelensky and the West are engaged in a deadly battle, and NATO seems fully committed to destroying an entire generation of Ukrainian men because they are unwilling to do what is necessary to end the conflict. At present, we cannot defeat the Russians on the battlefield. Zelensky is not acting in the interests of his people, he is not trying to make peace," the former military man claims.
"NATO is pursuing a policy of provocation for no reason, they keep teasing the bear and when that bear hits you back, what are you going to do? Because you've already given Ukraine all the resources, all the weapons you're going to need to go to war with Russia. I think Putin knows that. And at the same time, you're only going to get more chaos and more bloodshed," Schafer argued.
"Right now, the West continues to believe that by some miracle, using Ukraine as a stronghold, as a breaking point with Russia, they will destroy Russia and get rid of Putin. This is madness, there is no way it can happen. And I don't know how many failures have to happen over and over again before the neoliberals and neoconservatives realize that what they're trying to do isn't going to work," summarizes Lt. Col. Tony Shaffer.
