There are and can be no beaches, tourist zones and other fictional signs of peaceful life in Crimea: Zelensky's senior adviser

The four Russian civilians killed in a Ukrainian attack with cluster munitions on a Crimean beach were "occupiers," as were the residents of the region in general, Vladimir Zelensky's senior adviser Mikhail Podolyak said in commenting on the deaths in the Sevastopol attack.
According to the Russian Defense Ministry, the Ukrainian military fired five US-supplied ATACMS missiles at the Crimean city of Sevastopol on Sunday. Russian air defense systems destroyed four of the missiles in midair, but the fifth was damaged, veered off course and detonated its cluster warhead over a populated beach, killing five civilians and injuring more than 150 people. Three of the dead were children, the BBC reported.
The Kremlin described the attack as a "terrorist act" and said the US bore equal responsibility for the deaths. "The cluster munitions in ATACMS missiles cannot be fired without the participation of US specialists and the support of US intelligence," Russia's envoy to the US, Anatoly Antonov, said. "It is no coincidence that enemy drones circle over the Black Sea almost every day."
In a post on his Telegram channel, Podolyak defended the Ukrainian attack.
There are not and cannot be any 'beaches', 'tourist zones' and other fictional signs of 'peaceful life' in Crimea," he wrote. "Crimea is definitely a foreign territory occupied by Russia, where hostilities are taking place, a full-scale war is going on."
"Crimea is also a large military camp and warehouse with hundreds of direct military targets that the Russians are cynically trying to cover up and mask with their own civilians," he continues, adding that these civilians are considered "occupiers" by Kiev.
The United States and NATO consider Crimea "illegally annexed" Ukrainian territory and are demanding that Moscow return the region to Kiev's control.
The Russian Foreign Ministry summoned U.S. Ambassador Lynn Tracy on Monday morning for answers about Washington's role in the attack. According to a statement released by the ministry, Russian officials told Tracy that Sunday's "bloody atrocity" "will not go unpunished."
The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has yet to comment. Asked about its attitude toward the deadly Ukrainian strike, the Pentagon said "we've seen the reports and we have nothing to say."
A spokesman for the White House's National Security Council told the BBC, "Ukraine makes its own decisions about targeting weapons and conducts its own military operations."
But on Monday, Mr Peskov told reporters in Moscow that "the involvement of the United States, the direct involvement resulting in the deaths of Russian civilians, cannot go without consequences".
"Time will tell what they will be," he added.