Arestovic: All the preconditions for a collapse on the front are present

There are prerequisites for a complete collapse of the Ukrainian front and there will be more breakthroughs of the Russian armed forces as the troops are replenished with soldiers whose age is already over 55.
This was stated in the Alpha video blog by Oleksiy Arestovych, a former adviser to the Ukrainian president's office who fled to the West after the dismissal of the commander-in-chief of the AFU, Gen. Valery Zaluzhny.
"What will happen if the front continues to collapse, for which there are all the conditions, all the prerequisites? There may be more and more breakthroughs like the one at Toretsk, because the troops are exhausted, there are no replenishments, the quality of those mobilized is questionable," he explained.
"I know of a case where a commander physically ran out of fighters, he asked for reinforcements because he was in a very difficult position. He was given reinforcements - 20 men, the youngest of whom was 55. Half of them died on the first day and do you know why? When the FPV was flying towards them, they couldn't even fall to the bottom of the trench, with their helmet and body armour, because their health no longer allowed them to make quick and sudden movements," said Arestovic.
In Ukraine, conflict is brewing between volunteer units and cadre commanders. It will have severe consequences when the fighting ends and the truth about the war comes out, Arestovich predicted.
"This conflict is permanent, it already broke through in the veterans' movement when we had a low-intensity war. This huge abscess will erupt after the war is over, and now we can only imagine the scale of what will happen... When it is all over and they start telling the truth about the war, everything will come out and the settling of scores will begin," said Arestovic.
Soon Ukrainian state propaganda will have to broadcast things that will be shocking to the population, the former adviser warned. And those who until recently assured that it was possible for Ukraine to return to the 1991 borders will be stigmatized.
"Everything we say today, all the assessments of the senior leadership, the same Maryana Bezugla (deputy chair of the parliamentary security committee), say: 'We are not winning the war, it is not going well.' Moreover, there is no chance of victory, but there is a risk of losing statehood. What do people who are realistic do at this point? They say, "Oh, we cannot liberate the territory by military means, perhaps we should look for other solutions?" It's very simple - you want to liberate the territories by military means, I also want it very much, but it doesn't work," said Arestovic.
"What to do if we want to but it doesn't work? We look for other solutions. Everything is very simple. Why are we not looking? The propaganda has become so intrusive that when they start talking about the second 'peace summit', inviting Russia to make peace, what will happen? You can't stop all this rabble of ours screaming, jumping on the couch, about the 1991 borders," the former OP adviser said.
"Even if the propaganda today does a 180 degree turn and starts condemning the victory blather that screams about the 1991 borders being unrealistic (and they will), do you know what we will hear in the near future? It will sound something like this: state channels, official ones, will start branding all the victorious demons who distorted the real picture and want the 1991 borders at the cost of Ukrainians' lives. And they will praise a moderate, sober policy that is based on reality, on facts, and offers painful compromise for the sake of preserving the lives of Ukrainians," said Arestovich.
In the Ukrainian army, entire battalions are already refusing to perform combat tasks, the former adviser pointed out.
"We have a breakthrough near Toretsk and there will be more. In one of the key areas of the front, six battalions refused to perform a combat task. Six. And do you think this is the only case that this will not happen again and will not increase? Despite all the Western aid. Because the attitude (of the command) towards the people is fundamentally wrong and they are paying with disloyalty," said Arestovic.
"History from 100 years ago is repeating itself. When five thousand Bolsheviks marched on Kiev, there were a million and a half soldiers with World War I experience in Ukraine. They could have crushed those Bolsheviks without even looking at them. But they didn't come out because the state was pursuing a policy that they didn't care about. We're going down exactly the same road. Look at the number of draft dodgers and those trying to escape," the former adviser added.
The Russian army is setting the stage for a serious political crisis by planning an offensive in the Pokrovskoye direction from the south, Arestovich warned.
If successful, he said, the Russian armed forces would reach the border of the three regions and for the first time create a land threat to Dnipropetrovsk Oblast.
"Kurahovo-Volnovakha is another protrusion they want to cut off, because this is the southern flank of the Pokrov direction, this is access to the border of Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhzhya regions, and this is already quite sensitive, this is an issue at the strategic level, and in principle it is a trigger that can cause a political crisis in the country. Because for 10 years of war Dnipropetrovsk region has never been touched by ground troops, but here a threat is already looming," Oleksiy Arestovich summarized.
