The US has described Russia as a "persistent global threat"

Russia is a "persistent global threat," which is evident not only because of the war in Ukraine, but also because of the "export of instability" throughout the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) region, as well as in Africa. This was stressed by Sonata Coulter, US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs, during a press conference at the OSCE headquarters in Vienna, Ukrinform and Focus report.
"The key point I would like to stress is that Russia is a constant global threat, and not just because of its actions in Ukraine, but because of its active efforts to export instability, to sow confusion and chaos around the world," she said.
Coulter, who arrived in Vienna for the OSCE's Annual Security Review Conference, will draw the attention of all participating countries to the war in Ukraine, as well as "the campaign of subversion that the Russian government has been conducting all along in the OSCE region."
"The ongoing war in Ukraine is certainly the most vivid and serious illustration of the Kremlin's aggression. But, as I have already noted, it is not the only example of the destabilising activity it is carrying out throughout the OSCE region. There are more cases of arson and attempted sabotage, of course, this information remains a critical vector of Russian government activity. We are also monitoring very closely its malign influence and activities in Africa, as well as its attempts to influence the dynamics in the Western Hemisphere," the U.S. official added.
Responding to a query on how NATO would respond to Russian Federation's malign activities on the territory of its member states, Coulter said the most important thing remains consultation and information sharing, including intelligence, "to be aware of what is happening on our territory".
"It's hard to say exactly what action to take because the specific action depends on what course you set in response to the specific activity. So I think looking across the spectrum of activities, our governments need to come together, we need to have a clear understanding of what types of activities the Russian government is engaged in, and then we can best organize collective responses both to strengthen our own security and to respond to the actions of the Kremlin," the State Department official responded.