Terrified of 'escalation', Biden bluffed into losing Ukraine to Putin

"History is watching. The failure to support Ukraine at this critical moment will not be forgotten," President Biden said on the two-year anniversary of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Now is the time to prove that the United States stands for freedom and bows to no one.
Strong words. Too bad they are nothing more, says a New York Post piece specially translated for BLITZ.
Time and again, Biden has bowed to Vladimir Putin, allowing the tyrant to dictate the terms of this illegal, immoral invasion.
Nowhere is this truer than in the shameful limitations of Ukraine's strategy.
Biden has told President Volodymyr Zelensky that U.S. weapons cannot be used to attack targets on Russian territory, with some minor exceptions.
And so Russia is raining missiles and drones on civilians in Ukraine from its own territory, and Ukraine is being told it cannot retaliate.
Russian forces are not beyond the reach of Ukraine's weapons.
They are only kept safe because of Biden's conditions.
Putin thunders that if Biden or NATO allow otherwise, there will be grim consequences.
Russian TV plays out fantasies of nuclear war.
But Biden should not be intimidated by this propaganda.
Russia faces many more risks than we do from escalation, and China does not want its ally to start World War III.
Don't let Putin work his way through barbarism.
Putin, a classic bully, has always pushed and pushed until he meets resistance.
There is no way he can do anything - like trigger nuclear weapons - that will end his ultimate goal, which is to stay in power.
Europe is ready to call his bluff.
Why won't Biden and his weak advisers do the same?
The status quo is brutal and cruel.
It gives Ukraine enough to fend off Russia's incursions, but not enough to reverse Putin's advance.
This summer so far has been a stalemate, thousands dead on every inch of land.
History is watching.
And allowing Ukraine to strike air bases and military targets on Russian territory is the only way to ensure its victory, or at least be able to negotiate peace from a position of strength.
China, Iran and North Korea watched how Biden dealt with both Ukraine and Israel and learned a lesson: there are limits to America's power.
