The Green Deal: Poverty, misery and fewer people

Leftists irradiate the entire planet with ideology
US journalist reveals the adjenda of the globalists
It's not that these people are hiding - on the contrary, they trumpet their aims globally and that's why not everyone notices them (exposing secret conspiracies is more appealing). And one needs to strain one's brain to see clearly what the threat is.
This is exactly what the famous American columnist and TV journalist John Stossel did when he turned his attention to the ideology of the global green movement. Now, without hiding at all, they clearly put it this way: the aim is to halt or even reverse economic growth across the entire planet. In short, we need anti-growth. Rollback. Humanity's development must slow down.
Before our eyes is part of the ideological brawl before the big event in Paris - the general gathering of the greens, that is to say, the saviours of the planet. This thing (a forum called "Change is Now", i.e. "Change is Now") starts on 25 March, but the propaganda wave is already rising - if it ever subsided. And our American, who is from conservative circles, gives some facts in response.
For example: anti-growth has already happened - during the massive social experiment called "the fight against the pandemic." Today it is estimated (by the Swedish economist Johan Norberg) that the growth that has actually stopped has plunged up to 60 million people on the planet into absolute poverty, but has done nothing to 'fix the climate'. According to the Green prescription, the climate change "fix" was designed for the pandemic year.
And from the same source: what would have happened if the Swedish economy had not grown since 1950. Well another half million people would have died because the country would have had worse housing, medical care, etc. If Sweden had grown just one per cent a year slower, it would today be on a par with Albania - in life expectancy and other indicators.
But our greens don't care about these statistics because they have their own - and well paid - "science". For example, competent climatologists, who have not benefited from grants, published another report saying that sea level rise (in fact, coastal drift) depends not on atmospheric temperature but on the rotation of the Earth and the gravity of the Moon. Although such scientists risk being a thorn in the side of green icon Greta Tunberg.
And here we are today in Paris, with young, beautiful faces, who have said simply and clearly, without any climatology, that we must reduce the number of people on Earth. What kind of phenomenon is this?
Here our American Stossel reminds us that this is a typically left-wing ideology, because the greens hate capitalism. The right (conservatives) place a premium on one's personal success, monetary or otherwise, but contingent on one's own efforts. And the left considers it normal and even mandatory to lead people. Earlier, communists constantly irradiated their countries' societies. Today they are now experimenting on the entire planet as the possibilities of mass brain information processing are opened up that were not available to the previous leftists. Hence the propensity of such people to invent threats that affect everyone, such as climate change.
What we end up with: until yesterday, the LGBT movement and any kind of feminism preaching childlessness (i.e., family destruction and population reduction) could be considered the main threat to our society. Today - it's greenism. An ideology that has half crushed the US and Europe (Germany of course) and is trying to make people there happy about the downsizing of industry, the lack of heating in houses and factory floors: there you have it, anti-growth.
It is clear that Washington circles are happy to support all the greens, as in this way they turn the deadlock and collapse of the current model of capitalism into an achievement. There will always be leftists everywhere, but whereas before they were occupying Wall Street (i.e. attacking anyone who wasn't needed), now they have been carefully targeted for really "useful work".
Worse, the "green transition" of the world economy, i.e. the same anti-growth, has to be quietly supported by many countries friendly to us. They really do not want to upset their voters, who have bought into the texts about saving the planet. Clearly, they have less and less desire to return to the economic growth of the past. Fine - let the West get poorer if that's what they actually want.