Russia has banned the distribution of dozens of EU media outlets, including Mediapool and 24 Hours

The Russian Foreign Ministry said today it was banning access in Russia to dozens of European Union media outlets, which Moscow said was retaliation for a similar EU ban on several Russian media outlets, Reuters reported.
Among the banned media outlets are two Bulgarian ones, the Mediapul portal and the 24 Hours newspaper, according to the Russian Foreign Ministry's statement published on its website.
In May, the European Union announced it was suspending the distribution of four "Kremlin-linked propaganda networks", stripping them of their broadcasting rights in the bloc.
At the time, Brussels said the ban applied to Voice of Europe, the RIA news agency, and the Izvestiya and Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspapers.
The Russian Foreign Ministry hit back today by publishing a list of 81 media outlets from 25 EU member states, as well as pan-European media outlets, that will no longer be available on Russian territory.
The ministry accused the media of "systematically spreading inaccurate information" about what Russia calls its special military operation in Ukraine.
Among the mass media affected by the Russian move are the French news agency Agence France-Presse, the Austrian state broadcaster Or Erf (ORF), the Irish broadcaster RTE and the Spanish news agency EFE, as well as many other national broadcasters, newspapers and Politico.
"The Russian Federation has repeatedly warned at various levels that politically motivated harassment of local journalists and unjustified bans on the activities of Russian media in the EU will not go unanswered," the foreign ministry said in a statement.
"However, Brussels and the bloc's capitals chose to go down the path of escalation, which forced Moscow to adopt mirror and proportionate countermeasures."
Moscow's diplomatic vedomosti said it would reconsider the ban imposed by Russia if the EU lifted its restrictions on RIA, Izvestiya and Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspapers.
Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the lower house of the State Duma, said in May that the EU move showed the West was refusing to accept any alternative viewpoint and was destroying freedom of speech, Reuters recalled.
Source BTA