Bill Gates' new project: bury trees on an area as big as two Bulgarias to "save" the climate

Bill Gates and other investors will fund a new climate project. They believe the US company Kodama Systems can reduce carbon dioxide in the air by burying trees. This project covers 283,279 square kilometres of forest, mostly in the western US, over the next decade.
By comparison, Bulgaria has an area of 111 000 sq km, i.e. the project covers an area 2.5 times the size of Bulgaria. Bill Gates's new climate project was promoted in an article in Bulgaria's Climate magazine. "Deforestation to save the planet? Maybe not as crazy as it sounds." Kodama Systems itself has also published the Forbes article on its website.
What is the scheme
Global warming is a strategy to enable the rich to get richer and the real reason for the forest project is to extract carbon credits which can then be traded.
Forestry experts warn that the US has dense, overgrown forests that greatly increase the risk of large fires when wildfires inevitably occur.
They argue that clearing forests reduces these dangers. This includes cutting down trees or using controlled burns to prevent fires from reaching the forest canopy.
Harvested trees are usually piled in the cut areas and then left to rot or deliberately burned. This allows the carbon stored in them to simply return to the atmosphere, causing further warming, the project authors explain.
"Kodama says it is developing automated ways to "thin" dense forests. Trees that are too small to be sold for timber will be loaded into trucks and transported to a prepared pit, where they will be buried.
The key will be to ensure that what the company calls a "wood vault" keeps out oxygen and water that would otherwise accelerate decomposition, and prevents greenhouse gases from escaping.
In a field effort with Yale researchers expected to begin in the third quarter of this year, the company intends to create a burial mound in the Nevada desert that is seven yards high, three yards deep and 58 yards long and wide.
Because of all this "noble" cause of "saving the planet," Kodama Systems, in which Bill Gates and other millionaires invest, will receive carbon offsets (credits), which it will then sell and make millions.
$6.6 million from Bill Gates' climate fund
The company has already received about $6.6 million from Bill Gates' climate fund Breakthrough Energy Ventures, as well as Congruent Ventures and other investors, Kodama Systems reported.
In addition, the Stripe company also announced that it has awarded a $250,000 research grant to Kodama Systems and its research partner, the Yale Carbon Containment Lab, as part of a broader carbon removal project. This grant will support a pilot effort to bury waste biomass harvested from California's Nevada desert forests and study how well it prevents the release of greenhouse gases that cause climate change, the project's authors say.