PM is trying to establish peace in Ukraine, but Manipur&#39;s... Deputy Leader of the Congress Parliamentary Party in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi attended the India Today Conclave held in Mumbai. During this, he frankly expressed his opinion on many issues and also targeted the BJP government at the Center. He expressed disappointment on Thursday over Prime Minister Narendra Modi&#39;s focus on global diplomacy and ignoring the ongoing discontent in Manipur. He raised the question that when PM Modi is making diplomatic efforts to establish peace between Russia and Ukraine, why is the same strength not being used to resolve the ethnic conflict in Manipur? Speaking at the India Today Mumbai Conclave session, Gogoi said that the Prime Minister&#39;s direct involvement is needed to resolve the ethnic conflict in Manipur, which has been going on since May last year. In recent times and in the last few days, we have all talked about Prime Minister Modi going to New York and trying to find a solution between Russia and Ukraine. He is talking to the US President, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Why is the Prime Minister not talking to the Meitei and Kuki communities in Manipur and asking them to come together?&quot; He criticised PM Modi for travelling around the world to establish peace but not visiting Manipur to address the violence there. Gogoi lamented the breakdown of ethnic harmony in the region and recalled that he had seen the positive contribution of politics in Assam. &quot;It breaks my heart that here in the Northeast we have created an atmosphere where people cannot live with each other and there is hatred among them,&quot; he said. Demanding leadership from the PM, Gogoi further emphasised that the responsibility of restoring peace in Manipur cannot be handed over to others. &quot;What is Prime Minister Modi doing in Ukraine? He needs to be an active Prime Minister. The issue of bringing peace cannot be handed over to the Union Home Minister or any National Security Advisor,&quot; he urged. The PM should play the role of a peacemaker, a ruler and a unifier.&quot; Gogoi said the people of the Northeast will welcome his intervention. &quot;I think the people of the Northeast will thank him,&quot; he said. I will thank him if he brings peace to Manipur and finds a way for compromise and reconciliation between the Meitei and Kuki communities.&quot; Geopolitical importance of the Northeast Speaking on the broader geopolitical context, Gaurav Gogoi highlighted the important role of the Northeast in national security. He said problems in neighbouring countries like Bangladesh and Myanmar have a direct bearing on the region. &quot;The Northeast is important not just for our unity and integrity but also for our national security,&quot; he said. He also stressed the need for greater attention to the Prime Minister&#39;s global engagements as well as foreign policies related to India&#39;s neighbours like Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh. Political polarisation Asked about the growing polarisation in Indian politics, Gogoi warned that if real issues are not addressed, it could have political consequences, as happened in Sri Lanka. &quot;If the Congress and the BJP and major political parties continue to fight and do not find a solution, the people will punish us,&quot; he warned.