Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a two-day visit to Russia. During this, PM Modi appealed to President Vladimir Putin to end Ukraine. He said that no solution is going to come out of the battlefield. Russia and Ukraine have been at war for the last two years. This is PM Modi&#39;s first visit to Russia after Russia&#39;s attack on Ukraine. On the first day of the visit, President Putin invited PM Modi to his official residence &#39;Novo-Ogaryovo&#39; for dinner. During this, Putin praised PM Modi for the work done for India&#39;s progress. What did PM Modi say to President Putin In an informal meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, PM Modi told him that no solution can be found on the battlefield. PM Modi told Putin during dinner, &quot;India has always appealed to respect the United Nations Charter, including territorial integrity and sovereignty. There is no solution on the battlefield. Dialogue and diplomacy are the way forward.&quot; During this, PM Modi also raised the issue of Indians fraudulently recruited in the Russian army. According to sources, Russia has assured to release such people. It is believed that more than 20 Indians are fighting on behalf of Russia in the ongoing war against Ukraine. These people were sent to Russia by Indian travel agents on the pretext of getting them high-paying jobs. There they were sent to the battlefield. Putin praised PM Modi This is Prime Minister Modi&#39;s first visit to Russia after assuming power for the third time. India has never openly condemned Russia since the attack on Ukraine. It has also stayed away from the United Nations resolutions condemning Russia. At the same time, Russia was not directly named in the joint statement issued after the G-20 Heads of State Conference held in India last year. But the war was criticized. Russia also agreed to this statement. This meeting is the 16th meeting between PM Modi and President Putin in the last decade. The last meeting of the two leaders was held in Samarkand, Uzbekistan at the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) summit held in 2022. Also read: PM Modi Russia Visit Live: When PM Modi spoke &#39;straight talk&#39; on Ukraine war during dinner with Putin Track the latest news on NDTV.in and get news updates from every corner of the country and around the world