Greenhouse Effect | Madhya Pradesh Climate Change Knowledge Portal Climate Change Guide So, children, did you understand the things told so far? Now let us try to learn some new and very important things. See, when you read a book on any subject or learn a lesson, then some special words come again and again in that lesson. Children, by now you have gained a lot of information. You have also learned what climate change is, what are its causes and what are its effects on different aspects of human life. Now let us try to understand how to deal with climate change. The greenhouse effect is actually caused by the heat coming from the sun getting trapped in the earth&#39;s atmosphere. This heat gets trapped in the atmosphere, but is unable to go back into the sky. As this heat gets trapped more, our atmosphere becomes hotter. Climate change and global warming have become a big issue. We should also gain information about it, so let us try to know in simple language what is climate change? What are the main issues related to it? Fossil fuels are not renewable sources of energy. They are available in limited quantities only. The remains of dead animals and plants turn into such fuels over a long period of time. This process takes millions of years to complete. It needs to be used very sparingly, otherwise it may end completely. Water harvesting means storing or saving rainwater in various ways. Apart from ponds or lakes, rainwater can also be collected through tanks built underground. This water can be easily used for gardening and irrigation. Deforestation means cutting down forests or forest areas for urban activities to maintain the groundwater level. Deforestation is also called Nirvanikaran in Hindi. Cutting down forests for farming, mining or building construction etc. is an example of this. Trees play a very important role in the carbon cycle. They are responsible for photosynthesis. Madhya Pradesh, the second largest state of India, has many national parks where a large number of tigers live. These include Kanha National Park, Panna National Park, Pench Tiger Reserve, Madhav National Park, etc.