State level task force meeting on climate change in Jaipur, departments will make action plan to prevent heat stroke. He said that all the concerned departments should work in full coordination and ensure the implementation of effective measures and extensive public awareness activities to prevent heat stroke and heat stroke. Extreme heat wave warning has been issued. Shubhra Singh was chairing the meeting of the Multi-Sectoral State Level Task Force constituted on Climate Change in the conference hall at the Secretariat. The Union Health Ministry has issued a warning of severe heat and extreme heat wave in the state. Keeping this in mind, there is a need to be extra cautious. Also, as per the guidelines of the Central Government, comprehensive action has to be ensured to deal with situations like heat stroke. Complete it as soon as possible by running a campaign. The Additional Chief Secretary said that the Forest Department should take necessary measures to prevent incidents of fire in the forests and to prevent fire as well as make the families living in the forest area aware. He directed the Local Bodies Department to complete the work of fire audit and fire NOC in government and private hospitals as well as other institutions as soon as possible by running a campaign. Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department should ensure arrangements for shelter and shady places to protect the common people from heat stroke in rural areas. There should be adequate availability of shade, water and medical kits etc. for workers at MNREGA sites. Necessary information should be given in Gram Sabhas to protect the common people from heat stroke and seasonal diseases. People should be made aware to prevent heat-related diseases. Additional Chief Secretary said that Anganwadi workers have access to every house. They should provide necessary information to the common people regarding heat-related diseases. If symptoms of disease are found, they should help in motivating them for treatment. He directed to make students aware of heat-related diseases through various IEC activities on the occasion of No-Bag-Day in schools. He also emphasized on taking the help of organizations like NCC and Scout-Guide, NGO, Civil Societies etc. in IEC and other activities.