After 50 years, &#39;Kosi&#39; has again created havoc, fear of North Bihar drowning in floods... Ganga and Kosi rivers are once again in full spate in Bihar, due to which the threat of a serious flood has started looming over the state. On one hand, where 13 districts are badly affected due to the rising water level in Ganga, there is a possibility of North Bihar and Seemanchal getting submerged due to the heavy rise in the water level in Kosi river. &#39;Not seen so much water in 50 years&#39; According to the report, after 50 years, so much water is being seen in Kosi river which can submerge many districts of North Bihar. There is an uproar among the people about this. Local people at ground zero told that after about 55 years they have seen so much water in Kosi river. People fear a flood like 2008. In 2008, when Kusha dam broke, people tell about that time that two-three lakh cusecs of water was released and that broke the dam. This time, after continuous rains in Nepal, more than 5.5 lakh cusecs of water has been released from Kosi Barrage and the situation is very serious. Regarding this, a senior official said that the Bihar government has issued a flood warning in the overflowing Kosi, Gandak and Ganga rivers in the northern and central parts of the state after water was released from Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages on Saturday. Bihar officials on high alert Santosh Kumar Mall, Principal Secretary of the State Water Resources Department, said that a total of 5.7 cusecs of water was released from Birpur Barrage on Kosi river till noon, which is the highest in recent days. He said that all measures are being ensured to protect the embankments. Similarly, 4.20 lakh cusecs of water has been released from Valmikinagar Barrage till noon. After continuous rains for the last two-three days, the water level of many rivers across the state is rising. Due to continuous rains in many areas of Nepal, rivers are touching the danger level or flowing above the danger level at many places. Many areas submerged After the release of large amounts of water from these two barrages, the excess water of the river has entered the low-lying areas of Jogapatti, Nautan, Gaunaha, Bagha-1, Bagha-2, Ramnagar, Majhaulia and Narkatiaganj blocks of West Champaran and many areas of East Champaran. An alert has already been issued in many districts of Bihar as the IMD has warned of heavy rains and said that many parts may face low to moderate floods. The bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said that heavy rains are likely in West and East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran, Vaishali, Patna, Jehanabad, Madhubani and Bhojpur districts. It has been said that there is a danger of low to moderate floods in these districts in the next 24 hours. 39 dead, 11 missing in Nepal On the other hand, at least 39 people have died in Nepal due to floods caused by continuous rains. Some parts of Nepal have been submerged due to heavy rains since Friday, forcing disaster management officials to issue a flash flood warning. Due to heavy rains, nine people have died in Kathmandu, 16 in Lalitpur, five in Bhaktapur, three in Kavrepalanchowk, two each in Panchthar and Dhankuta and one each in Jhapa and Dhading, while a total of 11 people are missing.