Ukrainian soldiers entered Russian territory with tanks and armored vehicles, fierce ... Russian troops continued to clash with Ukrainian troops for the third day on Thursday. Ukrainian troops broke the Russian border in the Kursk area. According to Russian officials, in one of the largest Ukrainian attacks on Russia in the two-year-old war, about 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers infiltrated the Russian border with tanks and armored vehicles on the morning of August 6. Who were surrounded by drones and swarms of heavy artillery in the air. Fierce fighting is reported near the city of Sudzha, from where Russia&#39;s natural gas flows into Ukraine, raising fears of a sudden shutdown of transit flows to Europe. Nearly two and a half years after Russian President Vladimir Putin sent his troops into Ukraine in February 2022, this incursion is a setback for Russia. Putin has described the Ukrainian attack as a &#39;major provocation&#39;. Sergei Mironov, leader of a political party loyal to the Kremlin, called it a &#39;terrorist attack&#39; and &#39;an invasion of internationally recognized foreign territory&#39;. &#39;Residents are being evacuated...&#39; Kursk regional acting governor Alexei Smirnov said thousands of residents had been evacuated. The White House said the US had no prior knowledge of the attack and would seek more information from Kiev. Russia&#39;s Defense Ministry said on Thursday that the army and the Federal Security Service (FSB) had blocked Ukraine and were fighting Ukrainian units in the Kursk region. The ministry said the Northern Group of Forces, together with Russia&#39;s FSB, continue to destroy armed formations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Sudzhensky and Korenevsky districts of the Kursk region, adjacent to the Russian-Ukrainian border. Also read: Britain silent, US closed doors, in which country can Bangladesh&#39;s former PM Sheikh Hasina take refuge, is Russia also an option? The Ukrainian army has remained silent on the Kursk attack, although President Zelensky on Thursday praised the Ukrainian army for its ability to &#39;surprise&#39; and achieve results. He did not explicitly mention Kursk. Critical turn of the war Ukraine&#39;s energy minister said gas transit through Sudzha is still working. Most EU countries have reduced their dependence on Russian gas, but Austria is one country that still gets most of its gas through Ukraine. Ukraine is worried These battles are coming at a critical juncture in the conflict, which is the largest land war in Europe since World War II. Kiev worries that if Republican Donald Trump wins the presidential election in November, US support could weaken. Donald Trump has said he will end the war, with both Russia and Ukraine eager to gain the strongest possible bargaining position on the battlefield. Ukraine wants to stop the Russian army, which controls 18 percent of its territory. Also read: Ukraine deploys F16 fighter jets in the war, will now give a tough fight to Russia Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev said Ukraine&#39;s attack was an attempt to force Russia to divert resources from the front and show the West that Ukraine can still fight. After the Kursk attack, Russia should expand its war objectives to occupy the whole of Ukraine.