Any summit for peace in Ukraine should include Russia ... New Delhi: India on Friday made it clear that any international peace conference on Ukraine should not be one-sided and should also include Russia. Addressing the media in Kyiv after the bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said, &quot;We have been involved in many meetings of the summit starting from Copenhagen.&quot; He said that it included the views of not only those involving India but many others as well. I think many other countries have also participated in these meetings and they have their own special views on how to take it forward. Jaishankar said that what we heard from the Ukrainian side can be understood as to how to take it forward and what their expectations are. He said, &quot;Our view is that any exercise, if it is to be productive, will naturally have to involve the other party concerned (ie Russia). This cannot be a one-sided effort.&quot; According to a joint statement issued after the summit, Modi and Zelensky reiterated their readiness for further cooperation in upholding the principles of international law, including the UN Charter, such as respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states. In addition, they agreed on the desirability of close bilateral dialogue in this regard. The statement said that the Indian side reiterated its principled position and focus on a peaceful solution through dialogue and diplomacy. As a part of which, India has joined the Summit on Peace in Ukraine to be held in Bürgenstock, Switzerland in June 2024. At the same time, the Ukrainian side welcomed such participation of India and highlighted the importance of high-level Indian participation in the next peace summit. The Ukrainian side pointed out that the joint communiqué on the peace framework adopted at the Summit on Peace in Ukraine can serve as the basis for further efforts to promote a just peace based on dialogue, diplomacy and international law. It is worth mentioning here that India has participated in all four international meetings on peace in Ukraine before the summit held in Switzerland so far since the Russian invasion in February 2022, but it did not become a signatory to the joint communiqué issued after the summit. In November 2022, President Zelensky announced a 10-point peace plan on issues such as nuclear security, food security for Asian and African countries, Ukraine&#39;s energy infrastructure, release of prisoners and return of deported Ukrainian children to Russia, restoration of the 1991 Russia-Ukraine border, withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukraine, prosecution for war crimes in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, dealing with ecological damage, guarantees against future Russian aggression and a peace conference and international treaty. Apart from this, in December 2022, Zelensky called on the G7 states to support the plan. Before the summit in Bürgenstock, four meetings were held in Denmark, Saudi Arabia, Malta and Switzerland. India had participated in all these meetings. The first meeting was held in Copenhagen, Denmark on June 24, 2023, attended by representatives of Ukraine, G7 countries, European Union (EU), India, South Africa, Brazil and Turkey, with the aim of building broad international support for the peace process based on the Ukrainian 10-point proposal. At the same time, a European Commission official said that there was a consensus in the meeting that the peace process should be based on the UN Charter principles of territorial integrity and sovereignty. Let us tell you that the second meeting was held in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia on August 5-6, 2023, in which representatives of about 40 countries including China, India, EU member states, Brazil, South Africa, Indonesia, Mexico, Zambia, Egypt and the US participated. During this, agreements were made to establish a working group and a group of ambassadors on the topics of the Ukrainian 10-point peace proposal. The objective of holding a meeting at the head of state level was considered possible at the end of 2023. Apart from this, the third meeting was held in Malta on 28-29 October 2023 between the National Security Advisors of 65 countries of Europe, South America, Arab world, Africa and Asia. The fourth meeting was held in Davos, Switzerland in mid-January 2024 before the World Economic Forum, in which representatives of 83 countries and international organizations participated. Also read - PM Modi told Zelensky, we were not neutral in the war, we were in favor of peace