Ukraine condemned that the Russian army had seized the areas of Rubizhne and Severodonets ... The governor of the separatist province of Lugansk, Sergiy Haidai, assured that the Russian army is trying to “seize” the area of Rubizhne and Severodonets and confirmed that the authorities were already preparing a humanitarian corridor for March 20. In a video posted on Telegram on the official channel of the People&#39;s Militia of the LPR, a uniformed soldier assures that the separatist flag is flying in the city, as noted by the American network CNN. Hours earlier, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported on its official Facebook profile that Russian troops had advanced towards Severodonetsk, thirteen kilometers from Rubizhne. Haidai also reported in an interview with a Ukrainian media published on his official Facebook profile, that the bombings did not stop in the area, not only in Severodonetsk, but also in Popasna, Lisichansk and Kremin. The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces also assured that Russia “continues to take steps to compensate for personnel losses at the expense of foreigners”, so, according to reports, “the Russian occupiers have already recruited about 1,000 volunteers from the so-called army of Bashar al-Assad and Hezbollah.” On the other hand, according to the Ukrainian news agency Ukrinform, the anti-aircraft alarm went off again in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Thursday night. In connection with the shelling around the capital, one person has died and three others, including a child, have been injured in a bombing raid in the Sviatoshynsky district on Thursday. For his part, the mayor of Lviv (Lviv), Andriy Sadovy, claimed that Russian “missiles” exploded on Friday in the airport area of this large western Ukrainian city located near the Polish border. As a result of the attack, a factory near the airfield was destroyed. “Several missiles have hit an aircraft repair factory. The building was destroyed by gunfire. The factory&#39;s operations were suspended earlier, so for now there are no casualties,&quot; he wrote on Facebook. The mayor pointed out that there were already lifeguards in place. A few minutes earlier, Sadovy had assured that the attack had not directly impacted the airport. An AFP journalist was able to observe a smokescreen flying in the sky in that area, as well as police vehicles and ambulances in that direction. (With information from Europa Press) Continue reading: Arnold Schwarzenegger&#39;s emotional message to Russians and a strong call to Putin: &quot;You started this war and you must stop it&quot;