Narendra Modi&#39;s Ukraine visit at the cost of Russia, how important is it for India? Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting Poland and Ukraine from Wednesday. Modi is the first Prime Minister of India to visit Ukraine. It is worth noting that there has been a war going on between Russia and Ukraine for the last two and a half years. Not only this, Modi has returned from a visit to Russia just last month. There is a stir in the media of the country and abroad about why Narendra Modi wants to anger India&#39;s special friend Russia at a time when the intensity of the war between Russia and Ukraine has increased. International affairs expert Brahma Chellaney wrote on X that, &#39;Visiting Ukraine on August 23 is not only bad timing but its purpose is also not clear. The recent attack on Ukraine has dealt a blow to the ceasefire efforts. No Indian PM has visited Ukraine since Ukraine became independent. There is no solid reason for PM Modi to visit Ukraine. Especially when the tension has increased due to the war.&#39; The question arises whether the Indian government is not understanding this. But it is said that the biggest basis of any diplomatic relationship is the benefit of any country. Obviously, India will not be making this visit at its own cost. Let us see what are the circumstances in which this visit can prove to be a milestone for India. 1- Many projects of defense equipment are in the pipeline. India has been buying a lot of defense material from Russia. After Ukraine separated from Russia, Ukraine got control of many of those companies. Currently, India has a lot of defense equipment that has been made in Ukraine. Many of these are still manufactured in Ukraine. These include gas turbine engines for the warships of the Indian Navy and AN-32 aircraft operated by the Indian Air Force. Talks are going on with private companies of India for the manufacture of gas turbines used by Ukraine&#39;s government Zorya-Mashproekt warships. A few years ago, India signed a $400 million deal with Ukraine&#39;s STE to upgrade its fleet of 105 AN-32 aircraft and extend their lifeline for 40 years. This project is very late. India wants to complete it at any cost. Efforts are being made to complete it by 2029. It is also possible that India-Ukraine may also consider making gas turbine engines together. 2- Power to stop the Russia-Ukraine war, opportunity to dominate the world stage British leader and former PM Tony Blair&#39;s advisor Peter Mandelson writes in an article published in TOI that Prime Minister Modi&#39;s visit to Ukraine is a historic opportunity for India to dominate the world stage. India can play an important role in establishing global peace by advancing its non-aligned heritage. For the last two years, there have been differences between India and Western countries on how to deal with the Russian invasion of Ukraine? The US, UK and the EU repeatedly asked India to condemn Russia and join Western sanctions but India continued its security and economic ties with Russia. Senior Congress leader and former Minister of State for External Affairs Shashi Tharoor also said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi&#39;s upcoming visit to Ukraine is a good sign and will be appreciated. Tharoor said that it is a good thing that India is showing some degree of concern towards both the warring countries, Russia and Ukraine. Tharoor said, &#39;Many people believe that India is in a neutral role regarding most of the conflicts in the world today. It would be good for both the parties to show some degree of concern, as they did in Moscow. Now going to that country and greeting President Zelensky would be a very good sign.&#39; Tharoor also said that when the war started, he used to criticize India&#39;s stand a lot, because then India refused to condemn the violation of the sovereign border and the disregard of the United Nations Charter. But when India also adopted a helping stand with Ukraine, he had to change his stand. 3- In an attempt to send a message to Russia in view of the growing friendship between Russia and China, Russian President Vladimir Putin chose China for his first foreign visit in his new tenure. Chinese President Xi Jinping also promised a new era of partnership with Putin. China and Russia have a long and complex relationship and it is gradually getting stronger. After decades of rivalry, the two countries have finally come together in the face of Western sanctions on Russia. If Russia is increasing its friendship with India&#39;s biggest enemy, then it is important for India to tell Russia that it cannot remain a follower. Not only this, Russia&#39;s relations are also getting closer with North Korea and Iran. Due to the growing friendship between China and Russia, India has also been a big supporter of America&#39;s Indo-Pacific strategy, which has promised support for regional connectivity, trade and investment. India fears that China may put pressure on Russia to change its naval projection capabilities in the Bay of Bengal. Peter Mandelson writes that the relationship between Russia and China has now evolved into a geopolitical and military alliance without borders. Most importantly, it is being supported by North Korea and Iran. These countries are clearly forming an anti-democratic axis that is willing to ignore the rule of law, human rights and the sanctity of international borders. It is in India&#39;s strategic and geopolitical interest that such an alliance does not dominate the Global South and also pose a threat to India&#39;s territorial integrity. As one of the world&#39;s largest economies, India must now show leadership in promoting regional and global stability. 4- Important for lasting engagement with Central Europe This is the first visit of an Indian Prime Minister to Poland since 1979, when Morarji Desai visited Warsaw; no Indian Prime Minister has visited Kiev since Ukraine broke away from Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union. As British geopolitical thinker Halford Mackinder observed in the late 20th century, whoever rules eastern Europe rules the heartland; whoever rules the heartland rules the world-island; whoever rules the world-island rules the world. Can India afford to remain a passive spectator in this new struggle for central and eastern Europe? The prime minister&#39;s visit to Poland and Ukraine this week suggests that the answer for India is clearly no. Contrary to widespread expectations, Modi&#39;s visit to Warsaw and Kiev may be less about a new Indian peace initiative on Ukraine. Delhi cannot see this historic visit as a one-time event; for India it must be about setting the terms for a sustained long-term engagement with Poland and Ukraine, and more broadly, central Europe.