Russia did not stop even after the Ukrainian attacks, now hoisted the flag of victory on these areas of the enemy ... Russia did not stop even after the Ukrainian attacks, now hoisted the flag of victory on these areas of the enemy Russia has not changed its tough stance even after losing its land in the Ukrainian attacks. Russia has claimed that it has captured a village near an important logistics hub in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donetsk. The war between Russia and Ukraine has now become even more aggressive, people from both sides are constantly attacking. Ukraine may have gained an edge in the Russian Kursk region by attacking, but these attacks have made Russia even more aggressive instead of breaking its morale. Russia continues to attack at the beginning of the war. The Russian army claims that it has captured Sergivka, a village near Pokrovsk, a logistics hub occupied by Ukraine. The Russian army has constantly pushed back the Ukrainian army while keeping a strong hold on its occupied areas. Starting with the Ukrainian border village of Avdiivka, Russia said it has captured dozens of villages in eastern Ukraine. Many of these villages were captured by Russia when it launched a swift and surprise attack on Kharkiv. According to the AFP report, the village that Russia is talking about capturing is about 15 km from the major logistics center of Pokrovsk. A main road passing through this village ensured the logistical supply of Ukrainian forces located in the east, so it has been a major target for the Russian army. Russia is expected to benefit from control of the village in the attack on Pokrovsk. For months, Russia has been moving towards the city and cutting off villages on the outskirts of the city. Earlier this week, the Russian army claimed to have captured two villages near Pokrovsk. Earlier, Ukraine has also been steadily moving forward from the Kursk region and gaining a foothold on Russian soil. It has intensified its attacks in this area, which is proving to be very dangerous for the Russian forces present there. According to the report, Ukrainian forces have so far captured one city, more than 80 settlements and an area of about a thousand square kilometers in total. According to Ukraine, the purpose of its rapid attack is to reduce the pressure on Ukrainian forces fighting in other areas of the war. But Russian forces have made Russia even more aggressive in this attack by Ukraine. Russia has continued to make rapid attacks in the eastern Donetsk province. According to the report, the Donbass region comprising Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine has seen the most fighting since the war began.