Days are getting longer due to melting of ice deposited on the poles, how much will it affect the people of the earth? Know the whole story Due to climate change, the ice deposited on the poles is melting. This is slowing down the speed of the Earth, due to which the length of the day has started increasing at an &#39;unprecedented&#39; pace. The speed of rotation of the Earth is constantly slowing down. This speed determines the length of every day on Earth. According to the new study, the length of days is increasing at an &#39;unprecedented&#39; rate due to the slowing down of rotation speed. In the study, this change has been described as the effect of human-induced climate change. New research indicates that the effect of climate change on the length of the day may be more important than ever. Research shows that polar ice is melting rapidly due to global warming. According to a CNN report, this trend is expected to accelerate in the coming century as humans continue to emit greenhouse gases. A group of international researchers conducted a study on 200 years, from 1900 to 2100, to investigate the effect of climate change on the length of the day. In the 20th century, rising sea levels due to climate change caused a difference of 0.3 to 1 millisecond in the length of the day. However, in the last 20 years, researchers found that the length of the day has increased by 1.33 milliseconds every century, which according to the report is &#39;much more than at any time in the 20th century.&#39; Benedict Soja, assistant professor at ETH Zurich and co-author of the study, said that this phenomenon is similar to &#39;when a figure skater does a pirouette, he first keeps his arms close to the body and then spreads them.&#39; Soja said, &#39;The initially fast rotation slows down as the masses move away from the rotation axis, increasing physical inertia.&#39; The study published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences suggests that water flowing from Greenland and Antarctica adds more mass around the equator.