&#39;They did nothing to stop the Russia-Ukraine war, I will stop the war...&#39; Biden... Before the presidential election in the US, there was a heated debate on international issues during the presidential speech between Donald Trump and Kamala Harris on Wednesday. During this, both made many serious allegations against each other. During this, while Trump targeted the Biden government regarding the Russia-Ukraine war, Harris also retaliated. During this, there was a debate on many issues including Gaza conflict, Afghanistan. What did Trump-Harris say on the Russia-Ukraine war? Referring to the Russia-Ukraine war, Donald Trump said that millions of people have died in this war. The situation there is very bad. I think it is in the best interest of America to end this war. Trump stressed that if I become president, I will end this war. At the same time, attacking Biden, he said that the lack of leadership in the Biden administration allowed Russia to invade Ukraine. During this, Kamala Harris said, &#39;If Donald Trump were the president, Putin would be sitting in Kiev right now.&#39; He said that due to our support and arms help, today Ukraine is standing strongly against Russia. At the same time, when Trump was asked if he wants Ukraine to win the war with Russia, Trump did not answer the question. Instead he said: &#39;I want the war to stop. I want to save lives.&#39; What happened on the Gaza war... Referring to the Gaza war, Kamala Harris said that Israel has the right to defend itself. This war should end. We need a ceasefire now. At the same time, Trump said that Harris hates Netanyahu. She was at a sorority party and did not meet him. She hates Arab people. Trump said that Iran was empowered with the help of Biden. Also read: Trump called immigrants killers, usurpers and destroyers of the US, said - I will throw them out World leaders are laughing at Trump... Kamala Harris said during this that I have traveled the world as the Vice President of America and world leaders are laughing at Donald Trump. He said, &#39;I have spoken to military leaders, some of whom have worked with you, and they say you are disrespectful.&#39; What did he say about Afghanistan During the debate, Harris justified Biden&#39;s decision to withdraw troops from Afghanistan. He said, &#39;I agree with Biden&#39;s policy of withdrawing from Afghanistan. Trump negotiated with the Taliban. He negotiated with terrorists.&#39; Let us tell you that a fierce presidential debate took place between Republican candidate Donald Trump and Democratic candidate Kamala Harris at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia on Wednesday. During this, Trump and Harris made many serious allegations against each other. During this, Trump attacked the Biden government regarding immigrants in America. He said that most of these immigrants are criminals, who are destroying the fabric of America. What did Donald Trump say about immigrants During the debate, Trump attacked immigrants and said that the Biden government allowed illegal immigrants, terrorists and criminals to come to America during its tenure. This is their big mistake. These people have destroyed the fabric of this country. These people have allowed millions of people from all over the world to come to America, a large number of whom are criminals. Because of this, the crime rate in America is very high at present.