Russia-Ukraine War: 7 steps of Ukraine&#39;s &#39;war policy&#39; that have the world on its toes ... The whole world is currently watching the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine. Ukraine is being attacked by Russia, a world power with three times more population and equipped with nuclear weapons. The Russian army, which has entered the Ukrainian border, is continuously wreaking havoc in the cities of Ukraine with air strikes, missile attacks and tanks as well as ultramodern weapons. When Russia started the attack on Thursday, it targeted the Ukrainian army and air force bases on a large scale and the Russian army was rapidly moving towards the capital Kiev, conquering cities like Chernobyl. Then defense experts around the world started believing that in just a few hours the Russian army would capture the capital Kiev. President Zelensky will flee the country, and soon Russia will form a government of its choice in Ukraine by carrying out a coup. Russian President Putin also declared war and said that Ukraine will be demilitarized and those in the army who want to survive should surrender their weapons and go home. But after three days of fighting, the situation now looks like that Russia&#39;s dreams are not being fulfilled completely. Even if Russia wins the war later, but right now the Ukrainian army is fighting face-to-face with Russian soldiers in all the big cities of Ukraine. Reports of heavy losses to the Russian army are coming. Many cities have been recaptured by the Ukrainian army and now Russia has also had to come to the negotiating table in Belarus. How did Ukraine take a U-turn in the war in three days? In this situation, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is being praised all over the world. Along with face-to-face war, Zelensky has created such a situation with the strategy of psychological warfare that Putin seems to be trapped after attacking. 1. Guerilla warfare strategy Russia entered Ukraine with a large army and big weapons and pictures of continuous bombing of cities are also coming, but Ukraine has surprised everyone by adopting the strategy of guerilla warfare to deal with Russia. In all the cities including the capital Kiev, automatic rifles are being given to the army as well as the common people to fight the Russian army. People are being trained for war. After training, people are being deployed on the front with the soldiers on the borders of the cities. On the other hand, seeing the pictures of the devastation from the attack, the Russian attack is being criticized all over the world. A wave of patriotism has started in Ukraine to fight the attacking Russia. President Zelensky himself has come to the field in military uniform with weapons. Ukraine&#39;s Vice President, Prime Minister, Ministers, MPs, Mayors of cities, Ukrainian celebrities, models, players have all come to fight the Russian soldiers with weapons. The world has rarely seen such a strategy and picture of the war against the attacker. The whole world is saluting this spirit and patriotism of the Ukrainians. Last year, during the Taliban attack in Afghanistan, President Ashraf Ghani&#39;s decision to flee immediately cleared the way for the Taliban&#39;s capture of the capital Kabul, but Zelensky showed courage. Now Putin is being constantly criticized for the attack on Ukraine. Apart from the rest of the world, protests are also being held against Putin in many cities of Russia. 2. Trapped the Russian army in its strong areas Russia attacked Ukraine from three sides to surround it. Along with the Russian border, the Russian army also entered from the Donbask region, while the Russian army also attacked Ukraine from Russia&#39;s ally Belarus. Initially, the Russian army also dominated cities like Sumy and Chernobyl, but Ukraine prepared a battlefield of its choice by making strong fortifications in cities like Kharkiv, Kiev, which are considered its strongholds. The army and air force were barricaded here. While Russian soldiers are unaware of these areas, the Ukrainian army is familiar with the entire area and that is why pictures of Russian tanks and fighter planes being destroyed are being seen here. Apart from this, Ukraine is also succeeding in shooting down Russian missiles and fighter jets entering these areas with its air defense. Whatever the situation of the war may be later, but right now Ukraine seems to be giving Russia a hard time. 3. Continuous supply of weapons from Western countries NATO countries including the US may have refused to send troops to help Ukraine, but Ukrainian President Zelensky himself is constantly talking to leaders around the world even while on the battlefield. His strategy seems to be paying off. While the US has agreed to give Ukraine $350 million in aid, many countries are rapidly supplying weapons. This is helping Ukraine a lot in competing with Russia. Germany is sending 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 &#39;Stinger&#39; missiles to Ukraine. Belgium is sending machine guns to Ukraine. The Czech Republic has announced to send weapons and ammunition worth $8.5 million to Ukraine. This includes machine guns, assault rifles and other light weapons. France has said that it will give 300 million euros and military equipment to Ukraine, while the Netherlands will send 200 anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine. Neighboring country Poland has also promised to supply weapons to Ukraine. There are about 28 countries in the world that have announced to provide immediate help to Ukraine to deal with the attacks. 4. Rejecting the offer of talks The whole world is criticizing Russia&#39;s attacks. After three days of war, when Russia agreed to come to the negotiating table in Belarus, Ukraine first refused to hold talks in Belarus saying that it would not hold talks on the land of a country that allowed Russian soldiers to attack Ukraine from its border. After this, seeing the efforts failing, the President of Belarus had to talk to Ukraine and clarify his intentions. Only then Ukraine agreed to move forward in the direction of talks. The stage for talks has been set in Gomel, Belarus and now it remains to be seen to what extent it is successful in stopping the war. Also read: Ukraine-Russia War: Vladimir Putin alerts nuclear forces, Russia can take a big step at any time 5. President Zelensky&#39;s refusal to leave Kiev In the pictures of the war coming from Ukraine, President Zelensky is being discussed the most all over the world. Russia had launched attacks to overthrow the government of President Volodymyr Zelensky. There was talk that Zelensky might leave the country soon amid the attacks. British PM Boris Johnson also announced political asylum to Zelensky. The US also sent three military planes to the Poland border to evacuate President Zelensky to save him during the Russian attack. But the stance of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who was once a famous comedian and actor, surprised the whole world. While returning the American planes, Zelensky said, &#39;I have entered the war, I don&#39;t need a ride, I need weapons so that I can protect my country from the attackers. I and my family are here in the capital Kiev and I am holding the front on the battlefield.&#39; Hardly any world leader has led his country like this in any war. After this, people from every section of the country, celebrities started joining the army and there was a competition among everyone, whether common or special, to take on Russia. 6. Cyber war Along with the military battle between Russia and Ukraine, cyber war is also going on. Many websites of Ukraine were hacked and Ukraine&#39;s cyber attacks on Russia also made Russia a target of cyber attack all over the world. Many websites of Russia were hacked. Many hacker groups from all over the world have come in support of Ukraine against Russia and are continuously targeting Russian websites and telecommunication mediums. Hackers even played the national anthem of Ukraine by hacking Russian television. Hackers are continuously targeting emails related to the defense and government of Russia and Belarus. Cyber attacks are continuing from both sides. 7. Encirclement of Russia in global institutions like ICJ and UN Ukraine and many western countries are continuously adopting aggressive strategies on international forums to surround Russia for the attack. On the platform of UN, while America-Britain-France presented a proposal against Russia to stop the war immediately, Ukraine has talked about filing a complaint against Russia in ICJ i.e. International Criminal Court. Ukraine declared that Russia is committing genocide on people in our cities and it will have to answer for all these crimes in the International Court. Many countries including America-Britain-Germany-France have closed their airspace for Russia. Many types of sanctions have been imposed against Russian banks and many proposals have been implemented to ban Russia&#39;s economic activities so that Russia can be forced to stop the war. Which country has how many weapons? Russia is much stronger than Ukraine in terms of population and area, so in terms of weapons, there is no competition between the two countries. Russia is a nuclear-rich country and is counted among the world&#39;s largest military powers. Russia has 8.50 lakh active soldiers while Ukraine has 2 lakh. But both the countries have equal 2.50 lakh reserve military forces. Russia has 2.50 lakh paramilitary forces, while Ukraine has only 50 thousand. Russia&#39;s Air Force is ranked second in the world while Ukraine&#39;s ranking is 31st. Russia has a total of 772 fighter jets, while Ukraine has only 69. Talking about ground power, Russia has 12,420 tanks, while Ukraine has 2596 tanks. Russia has 30,122 armored vehicles while Ukraine has 12,303 armored vehicles.