Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin are scheduled to hold a summit in Moscow today. Measures to further promote India-Russia cooperation in areas such as energy, trade, manufacturing and fertilizers may be the focus of the summit talks. Apart from talks between the two leaders, talks will also be held with delegations. Prime Minister Modi arrived on a two-day visit to Russia on Monday for the 22nd India-Russia annual summit with President Putin. Before the talks today, PM Modi also addressed the Indian community in Moscow. These issues may be the focus of the PM Modi-Putin summit talks - Ukraine war may also be mentioned in the talks. India may reaffirm its stance that dialogue and diplomacy are the only means to resolve the conflict. No solution can be found on the battlefield. According to sources, during the talks, there will be an emphasis on advancing the economic agenda, especially in areas such as energy, trade, manufacturing and fertilizers. Investment relations are also growing between the two countries, which include the areas of banking, railways and steel. Which can be strengthened further. Last year, more than 80 MMT of crude oil was imported from Russia. Similarly, Russia is an important supplier of imported fertilizers. More than 48 lakh tonnes of fertilizers were imported from Russia last year. The supply of fertilizers is important for farmers. Russia has been an important partner to meet our energy requirements. In the field of nuclear energy, units 1 and 2 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant have already been commissioned. Work on units 3 and 6 is in progress. In such a situation, there is a need to ensure fuel supply for two new upcoming nuclear power plants. This can also be the center of talks on the agenda. These talks are held every year The annual summit between the Prime Minister of India and the President of Russia is the highest institutional dialogue process in the strategic partnership between the two countries. The annual summit is held once each in India and Russia. The last summit was held in New Delhi on 6 December 2021. President Putin came to India to participate in it. (With language input) Video: PM Modi Russia Visit | &#39;Today&#39;s India achieves every goal it sets&#39;: PM&#39;s full speech in Russia Track the latest news on NDTV.in and get news updates from across the country and around the world