Russia-Ukraine Conflict: What is the root of the Russia-Ukraine dispute? The countries that were once together ... Russia-Ukraine Conflict: Tensions between Russia and Ukraine are increasing. US President Joe Biden has expressed apprehension that Russia can attack Ukraine at any time. He said that he has a reason to believe that Russia will attack Ukraine. However, he also said that if Russia initiates peace, he is ready to talk to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Meanwhile, there have been reports that Russia has surrounded Ukraine on three sides and heavy weapons and equipment are deployed around it in addition to 1.50 lakh soldiers. The ongoing tension between Russia and Ukraine is not new. Till about 30 years ago, both the countries were one, but today the border of Russia and Ukraine is counted among the most tense borders in the world. But how did all this happen? In August 1991, Ukraine declared independence from the Soviet Union. A referendum was held on 1 December of the same year, in which 90% of Ukrainians voted in favour of separation from the Soviet Union. The next day, the then President of Russia, Boris Yeltsin, recognised Ukraine as a separate country. At that time, Russia also declared Crimea as a part of Ukraine. In 1954, the supreme leader of the Soviet Union, Nikita Khrushchev, had gifted Crimea to Ukraine. Also read-- Ukraine Russia dispute: Encirclement on Ukraine&#39;s borders, Russia&#39;s movement seen in satellite, army and artillery advancing. Protests in Ukraine due to pro-Russian President. In the 2004 presidential election, Viktor Yanukovych won in Ukraine. Yanukovich is considered a supporter of Russia. After his victory, there was a rebellion in Ukraine. It was named Orange Revolution. The protesters were demanding a recount. Russia claimed that Western countries were behind these protests. In 2008, opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko presented a plan for Ukraine to join NATO. The US supported it. But Russian President Vladimir Putin opposed it. NATO announced the inclusion of Georgia and Ukraine. But Russia attacked Georgia and captured two of its areas in just 4 days. Also read-- Russia-Ukraine crisis: Russia showed its power by conducting nuclear drills, Russian Navy also entered the Black Sea... Ukraine crisis deepened. Situation worsened after Yanukovich became president again. Viktor Yanukovich won the 2010 presidential election once again. He rejected the proposal for Ukraine to join NATO. In November 2013, Yanukovich backed out from signing an agreement with the European Union. Ukraine was going to get an economic package of $15 billion from this agreement. People took to the streets in protest against Yanukovich&#39;s decision. In February 2014, dozens of protesters were killed in the capital Kiev. The protests grew so much that Yanukovich had to flee the country on 22 February 2014. After the pro-European Union came to power in Ukraine, Crimea was attacked. Rebels wearing army uniforms captured the Crimean parliament. Russian President Putin refused to accept that these were Russian soldiers. A referendum was held in Crimea in March 2014. In this, 97 percent of the people voted in favor of joining Russia. Overnight, more than 25 thousand Ukrainian soldiers and their families were evacuated from there. On 18 March 2014, Crimea officially became a part of Russia. The conflict continued even after the occupation of Crimea. Separatists declared two regions of Ukraine&#39;s Donbas, Donetsk and Luhansk, as separate countries. Donetsk and Luhansk are still two separate countries. Then Zelensky came to power Volodymyr Zelensky was elected President of Ukraine in the 2019 elections. He promised to restore the old status of Donbass. As soon as Zelensky came to power, he intensified his efforts to join NATO. In November 2021, satellite images revealed that Russia has started deploying troops near the Ukrainian border. Russia does not want Ukraine to join NATO, because Russia feels that if this happens, NATO soldiers and bases will come and stand near its border. Right now the tension between Russia and Ukraine has increased a lot. Western countries including America have expressed concern that Russia can attack Ukraine at any time. According to reports, Russia has deployed more than 1.5 lakh soldiers and weapons near Ukraine.