Which are the 4 countries that are supporting Russia in the Ukraine war? - Hindustan Which are the 4 countries that are supporting Russia in the Ukraine war? A condemnation motion was brought against Russia in the United Nations General Assembly on 2 March. 141 countries voted in favor of this resolution and 5 countries were against it. 35 countries including India, Pakistan and China... Listen to this news A condemnation motion was brought against Russia in the United Nations General Assembly on 2 March. 141 countries voted in favor of this resolution and 5 countries were against it. 35 countries including India, Pakistan and China kept away from voting on this resolution. Countries like North Korea, Russia, Syria, Belarus and Eritrea voted against the resolution. Out of the African countries, only Eritrea voted in favor of Russia against the condemnation motion. Syria openly came out in support of Russia Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has supported Russia on Russia&#39;s invasion of Ukraine. He recently said that Putin is correcting history. For the last few years, America has been trying to remove Assad from the throne of Syria, but with the help of Putin, he has remained in power till now. Experts believe that this is the reason why Syria seems to be in Russia&#39;s camp. Belarus is with Russia! Belarus has continuously helped Russia in the Ukraine war. In the year 2020, there was a massive rebellion in the country against Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. People protested fiercely against Lukashenko for months. People said that Lukashenko had rigged the elections and was becoming president by stealing. At this time, Russian President Vladimir Putin helped Alexander Lukashenko in every possible way and his power remained. Russia has strongly opposed democracy in Belarus. Russia has revived the economy of Belarus many times. In such a situation, when Russia needed Belarus&#39;s help in Ukraine, Belarus was not in a position to say no. Talking about North Korea, America has imposed many types of sanctions on North Korea. Due to this, relations between the two countries are in a very bad condition. Experts say that Russia has continuously helped North Korea to reduce the impact of these sanctions, which is why North Korea is with Russia in the Ukraine war.