Russia-Ukraine Conflict: Is the Ukraine crisis the beginning of the Third World War ... Russia-Ukraine Conflict: The war between Russia and Ukraine has started. Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced a military operation against Ukraine. Russia has already sent troops to Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that 2 lakh Russian soldiers are deployed near his border. The threat of a war between Russia and Ukraine can also arise. That is because British PM Boris Johnson has already said that Russia is preparing for the biggest war in Europe after the Second World War. The danger of a great war between Russia and Ukraine is also increasing because NATO countries like America, France, Britain and Germany have also sent their armies to protect Ukraine. On the other hand, the deployment of weapons and soldiers is continuously increasing on the Russia-Ukraine border. Before this, the world has faced two world wars and the devastation caused in both those wars shows the scary picture of the devastation that will be caused in the third world war. In both the world wars, not only crores of people died in the world, but conditions like starvation and inflation also arose. Let us know how the first and second world wars started? Also read-- Vladimir Putin Profile: What is the secret of Russia&#39;s strength? That power of Putin which is now competing with the whole world First World War - The first world war lasted from 28 July 1914 to 11 November 1918. No country takes responsibility for this war. However, the reason for the first world war is believed to be the murder of the heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire and his wife. - In June 1914, the heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Archduke Ferdinand, was on a tour of Sarajevo in Bosnia with his wife. He was murdered on 28 June 1914. That day was also his 14th wedding anniversary. Serbia was accused of this murder. - A month later, Austria waged war against Serbia. After this, gradually other countries also joined and the war of two countries turned into a world war. Countries like Germany, France, Britain and America were involved in this war. - After a war that lasted for 4 years, the First World War ended with the surrender of Germany on 11 November 1918. On 28 June 1919, Germany signed the Treaty of Versailles. Under this treaty, Germany also had to lose a large part of its territory. Many restrictions were also imposed on Germany. According to the British government, 94 lakh people were killed in the First World War. Also read-- Russia Ukraine Conflict: America ready for a confrontation with Russia, this is the real reason for the two superpowers coming face to face Second World War - The responsibility of the First World War was put on Germany and it is said that it was forced to sign the Treaty of Versailles. Adolf Hitler, leader of the German National Socialist (Nazism) Party, promised to overturn the Treaty of Versailles. - In February 1933, Hitler became Chancellor of Germany, after which he established himself as a dictator. In March 1938, Germany and Austria united. Hitler&#39;s army attacked and occupied Czechoslovakia in March 1939. - After occupying Czechoslovakia, it was Poland&#39;s turn. On 1 September 1939, the German army entered Poland and with this the Second World War began. After this, the world was divided into two parts. One was the Allied Nations which included countries like America, France, Britain, Soviet Union and the other was the Axis Nations which included Germany, Italy and Japan. - Hitler&#39;s army started occupying countries like Norway, Denmark, Luxembourg, Belgium, Netherlands. The German army also waged war against the Soviet Union. However, the German soldiers could not hold out much against the Soviet Army. Later, Hitler became so crazy that he waged war against America as well. - After losing to the Soviet Union, German soldiers were driven out of European countries as well. America, Britain and the Soviet Union together started bombing German cities. Finally, when Germany&#39;s defeat was almost certain, Hitler committed suicide on 30 April 1945. Germany surrendered on 8 May 1945. - Even after Germany&#39;s surrender, Japan was not ready to surrender. That is why America attacked Hiroshima on 6 August 1945 and Nagasaki with an atomic bomb on 9 August 1945. Finally, Japan also surrendered and the Second World War ended on 2 September 1945. - According to an estimate, 7.85 crore people were killed in the Second World War, including more than 5.5 crore soldiers. Not only this, more than 30 lakh people went missing and due to the nuclear attack, there are many diseases in Japan even today. That is why it is considered the most horrific war ever.