Climate Change Policy - Snohomish County PUD Climate Change Policy Snohomish County PUD has become one of the first utilities in the region to adopt an official climate change policy as well as supporting principles and strategies. In adopting the policy, the PUD&#39;s commissioners recognized that climate change is a serious global problem and emphasized their commitment to using natural resources more efficiently. The utility is located in one of the fastest growing counties in the region and seeks to meet the challenges that rapid growth presents with thoughtfulness and sensitivity to help preserve our environment. Policy Snohomish County PUD will provide electricity, water and related services to its customers in an environmentally responsible manner, while increasing economic value, financial stability, and operational safety and security for our ratepayers. Snohomish County PUD faces significant challenges and some uncertainty in serving community growth while addressing the issue of global climate change. Climate change is a serious global problem, and we believe it must be addressed through the development of thoughtful and forward-looking legislation that actually results in reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in a practical and cost-effective way. It is also important that any legislative solution encourages and provides incentives for the development and application of innovative technologies as part of a climate change strategy. Northwest&#39;s investments in energy efficiency and renewable hydropower have yielded substantial environmental benefits. We will continue this legacy by accomplishing customer growth through a diverse mix of conservation and renewable technologies, including but not limited to wind, tidal, solar, biomass and geothermal. Using our natural resources more efficiently and wisely is both environmentally and economically good. Therefore, legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, if done correctly, should not have a negative impact on the county&#39;s economy or competitiveness. PUD Principles for Climate Change Snohomish County PUD promotes the following principles to guide legislation and will incorporate the following strategies to guide our actions. - Legislative action to address climate change should involve all sectors of the economy and all sources of greenhouse gases. - Any action should consider the economic impacts on consumers, especially those who are economically disadvantaged. - Legislation and regulation should favorably recognize and credit historical investments in energy efficiency and renewable resources that have reduced or avoided greenhouse gas emissions. - The PUD prefers a single, comprehensive, national approach to addressing climate change; however, if states or other local jurisdictions enact related legislation, it should be compatible with other climate change initiatives to facilitate implementation and ensure reasonable certainty. - A clear and certain regulatory framework for climate change is an absolute necessity. Otherwise, it will be difficult to determine the most prudent path for utilities to acquire and maintain the financing capacity necessary to make appropriate long-term investments. - The Northwest should not be required to subsidize greenhouse gas mitigation in other parts of the country that rely on substantial fossil fuel production. The Northwest is reducing the environmental impacts (e.g., fish and wildlife) associated with its hydro-based generation at considerable cost. At the same time, the Northwest faces significant development pressures that will demand large financial investments to achieve the necessary levels of new renewable technologies. - Each region of the country should reduce its own environmental impacts and implement its own new technologies such that the investment associated with greenhouse gas emissions reductions is commensurate with the level of contribution to the problem. - The two most commonly debated approaches to encouraging investment in new clean technologies are &quot;carbon or production taxes&quot; and &quot;cap-and-trade.&quot; At this time, the PUD does not support one approach over the other. Both approaches have inherent complexities and features that could either help or penalize the Northwest. There are some broad basic principles that should drive the debate about these two approaches. - If a production or carbon tax approach is considered, it should only apply to activities that actually produce greenhouse gas emissions. Such a tax on existing or future renewable resources is both illogical and counterproductive. - If a cap-and-trade approach is considered, allowances across the utility industry should be allocated equitably (e.g., load-based) and not based on current or historical levels of greenhouse gas emissions. To do otherwise would be to reward high-emitting sectors while penalizing those whose contribution to the problem has been minimal. PUD Strategies for Climate Change - Reduce energy use by improving the energy efficiency of our own utility generation, transmission, distribution, and administrative facilities. - Fully comply with state requirements (I-937) to secure all cost-effective conservation from our customer base. - Use integrated resource planning standards that: a) consider the long-term costs and risks associated with greenhouse-gas-emitting generation sources and b) consider a diversity of resource options that provide the optimal balance of environmental and economic elements. - Monitor emerging technologies and best practices for local applications where appropriate. - Monitor and evaluate actual changes occurring in climate (e.g. snow pack, etc.) and adapt effectively to the actual impacts of climate change on our utility operations. - Educate our customers and promote public awareness on climate change issues. - Influence public policy forums on climate change at the local, state and national levels for the benefit of our ratepayers. - Support the creation and location of innovative industries in our service area that manufacture products or provide services that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. - Support and recognize the efforts of our employees in the creation and deployment of innovative programs and actions to reduce their individual and the PUD&#39;s contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. - Reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from non-production activities by modifying activities where this can be accomplished at a reasonable cost while maintaining a high level of customer service. - Evaluate on an ongoing basis that the policy, principles and strategies outlined in this document are helping us meet our overall goals and make adjustments when and where appropriate.