Climate change has increased food insecurity, people are struggling with food shortages… Due to climate change, the weather has wreaked havoc in the year 2023. Heat waves, floods, droughts, forest fires and increasing sea storms are having a dangerous effect on crops and the lives of common people. The decrease in global yield due to the adverse effect on crops has increased food insecurity. The United Nations organization World Meteorological Organization (WMO) has released a fresh report ahead of World Meteorological Day on March 23, according to which the problem of climate change is a huge challenge for humanity. Due to this, food insecurity is increasing. Due to this, the number of people struggling with food shortage in the world has increased from 149 million to 330 million (33 crores). The year 2023 has been the hottest year so far. The latest The State of Global Climate Report of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a United Nations body, which came before World Weather Day on 23 March, says that due to climate change, the weather has wreaked havoc in the year 2023. The report says that in the year 2023, new records have been made for greenhouse gas emissions, earth&#39;s temperature, increasing heat on the sea surface, rising sea level, along with melting of ice and glaciers in the Antarctic region. This also includes increasing salinity on the earth. Heat waves, floods, droughts, forest fires and intensifying sea storms are having a dangerous effect on crops and the lives of common people. This has also caused economic losses of billions of dollars. The report says that the year 2023 has been the hottest year so far. This has been the hottest ten-year period. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said that the changing weather is giving warnings on all parameters related to climate change. These are not only increasing, but are also indicating to go beyond all estimates rapidly. WMO Secretary-General Celeste Saulo says that we have never come so close to the 1.5 degree Celsius limit set in the Paris Agreement regarding climate change and global warming. WMO is issuing a red alert for the world. Climate change is much more than an increase in temperature. In the year 2023, we have raised the temperature of the sea, the threat to glaciers and the reduction in ice in Antarctica, which are particularly serious concerns. In the year 2023, on an average, one-third of the oceans faced marine heatwaves every day, affecting very important ecosystems and food systems. By the last few months of the year 2023, about 90 percent of the oceans faced heatwave conditions at some point or the other. From the year 1950 to last year, the ice of the glaciers melted the most. Initial data shows that its maximum effect was seen in western North America and Europe. The rate of melting of ice in the Antarctic sea is also worrying. At the end of winter, it was one million square kilometers less than last year. This is equal to the area of France and Germany combined. Saulo said that the problem of climate change is a huge challenge for humanity. Increasing food insecurity, displacement of people are indicating loss of biodiversity. The number of people suffering from food shortage in the world has increased from 149 million to 330 million. This is more than double the increase between before Covid and 2023. This data is of 78 countries monitored by the World Food Programme. According to the report, changes in weather and climate may not be its root causes, but they are definitely factors increasing food insecurity. Displacement also increased in the year 2023 due to extreme weather, which indicates how the impact on sensitive populations is being underestimated in the damage caused by climate. However, there is still a ray of hope. Copyright©2024 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today