Humans are not aware, but trees are fighting climate change... know how? Trees are considered to be the best source of oxygen, but despite this, trees are cut on a large scale without understanding its importance. A new revelation has been made in recent research which says that the bark of trees absorbs the greenhouse gas methane and is secretly helping the environment. Trees and plants are as important for humans as air and water, but humans are still unable to understand the importance of trees. Large-scale research proves that trees can absorb greenhouse gases in another way, due to which forests can give us many benefits. As we know that methane gas has contributed about one-third to global warming since pre-industrial times. This means that methane is a major factor in global warming. Methane emissions have increased further in the last 20 years, due to which the problem of global warming is also increasing rapidly. Let us tell you that it is 80-85 times more powerful than carbon dioxide (CO2) in terms of global warming potential. It has become a big problem for the earth&#39;s climate. Methane works to heat the atmosphere more than CO₂. While CO₂ can remain in the atmosphere for a hundred years, the lifespan of methane is about ten years. Methane gas staying in the atmosphere for so long means that any process that removes methane from the atmosphere can have a rapid effect. If the process is used properly to remove methane, then it can prove to be a boon for our change. For this, researchers also tried to understand how methane comes into the atmosphere and how all the processes work to remove it. The research said that the exchange of this gas occurs between the bark of the tree. Wetlands are considered to be the first natural source of methane. In swamps and floodplains, trees can throw methane from the lower part of their trunks. But methane exchange in trees growing in swamps and floodplains has not been investigated before. The study measured methane exchange on the trunks of hundreds of trees in forests along a climate gradient extending from the Amazon and Panama to Sweden and forests near Oxford in the UK. The researchers used a plastic box in the forest, wrapped it around the tree trunk and connected the methane analyzer with a laser. This process found that some trees emitted small amounts from the base of their trunks.