How is Ukraine&#39;s refugee crisis fundamentally changing European countries? It is unusual to see a country&#39;s population increase by almost six percent in the span of just one month. It is also very unusual to see almost nine percent of Ukraine&#39;s population - mainly women and children - fleeing the borders of their country devastated by Russia&#39;s war. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has rarely seen such devastation in Europe in the last seven decades. Within a month of the war, about 3.8 million people have fled Ukraine. The total population there is 43 million. According to the United Nations, the scale and speed of this refugee crisis is the largest since World War II. This unprecedented displacement could turn into a human catastrophe as almost a quarter of Ukraine&#39;s population (more than ten million people) have been forced to leave their homes to save themselves from Russia&#39;s attack. Some are moving within the country and many to other countries. If the invasion continues, this number is likely to increase further in the coming days. Russian military forces began their invasion on February 24, 2022, and they continue to bomb and lob ammunition at buildings and civilians in Ukraine. Also read-- Russia-Ukraine War: What is Putin&#39;s &#39;Mission Korea&#39; plan on Ukraine, what will be the end of the 33-day war? Most of the refugees fled to neighboring countries in Eastern Europe, with Poland providing space to most of them, followed by Romania, Moldova, Hungary and Slovakia. According to UNHCR estimates, about 2.3 million people entered Poland, causing its population to increase by about six percent in just one month. Other neighboring countries also allowed the entry of millions of citizens last month. According to data available on the UN website, about 2.7 lakh people have also gone to Russia. Apart from housing and primary health care, refugees will also need education for the next several years. Accommodating such a large number of refugees will put a lot of burden on these Eastern European countries. They are among some of the poorest nations in the region. Last week on 23 March, the European Commission also outlined steps for member states to address the needs of people fleeing the war-torn country. Ukraine Crisis In terms of absolute numbers, the sheer volume of migration in such a short period is far greater than the situation seen in Afghanistan and Syria, two of the most war-torn countries to have seen large-scale human displacement in recent years. The displacement of around four million Ukrainian refugees in various European countries is almost three times more than the 1.3 million refugees who took refuge in Europe in 2015. However, the number of people fleeing Ukraine has decreased in the last two weeks compared to the beginning of March, when around two lakh people fled the war-torn country for their lives for two consecutive days.