Now there can be chaos in the Russia-Ukraine war, why are the US and NATO forces planning direct entry? Ukraine-Russia War: The Ukrainian army is currently facing a huge shortage of military personnel. Apart from this, Ukraine&#39;s position in the war has weakened in recent weeks and Russia has entered taking advantage of this. Ukraine-Russia War: On the one hand, while Russia and China are discussing a strategy to end the Ukraine war by giving a decisive result, on the other hand, NATO allies are slowly moving towards Ukraine. NATO allies are now planning to send troops to Ukraine to train the military forces of Ukraine. This is a move that can directly drag the United States and European countries into the Ukraine war. So far, the US and European countries have avoided directly intervening in the Ukraine war. However, they have been providing economic and military help against Russia and have also imposed many types of sanctions on Russia. According to the Sunday Morning Herald report, the Ukrainian army is currently facing a huge shortage of military personnel. Apart from this, Ukraine&#39;s position on the war front has weakened in recent weeks and taking advantage of this, Russia has put pressure and gained an edge over Ukraine on many fronts. The Russian army has already advanced several kilometers in many border villages. Russia has benefited from the situation under which Ukraine has been delayed in receiving American and European weapons shipments. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the Russian army has currently taken the lead over Ukraine. Therefore, Ukrainian officials have appealed to their American and NATO allies to help prepare and train their nearly 150,000 recruits for the front line of the war. Although the US has clearly denied this, General Charles Brown Jr., Chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the US Air Force, said on Thursday that the deployment of trainers of Ukrainian soldiers by NATO seems inevitable. He said, &quot;Ultimately, over time we will definitely get there.&quot; General Charles Brown Jr. said these things when he was going to the NATO meeting in Brussels. Brown gave this information to journalists in his plane. He said that at such a time, any attempt to help inside Ukraine could prove fatal for those NATO trainers. Then the precious air defense system on the war front may have to be used to protect these trainers. This will make the Ukrainian army more weak in front of Russia at the ground level. Let us tell you that just a day earlier on May 16, the heads of the military committee of NATO countries held a big meeting on defense matters at the NATO headquarters in Brussels. The defense chiefs of 32 NATO allied countries have agreed to continue supporting Ukraine.