Vadim Krasikov: Vadim Krasikov may be considered a hero by Russia, but he is also called the butcher of Russia. The most prominent Russian prisoner to be released in the prisoner exchange is Vadim Krasikov. Trending Photos Russian Biggest Killer: So finally what happened was the tug of war between the world&#39;s major superpowers for a long time. This was the process of prisoner exchange. The prisoner exchange agreement, brokered by Turkey, included the US, Norway, Germany, Poland, Russia, Belarus and Slovenia. Russian President Putin met Russian citizens imprisoned abroad on Thursday night. Putin wished them and said that they would be nominated for government awards. But the biggest name in the news among all these is that of Vadim Krasikov, whom the people of Russia are seeing as a hero and now he is making a comeback. Vadim Krasikov may be considered a hero by Russia, but he is also called the butcher of Russia. The most prominent Russian prisoner to be released in the prisoner exchange was Vadim Krasikov, who was sentenced to life imprisonment in Germany for the murder of former Chechen separatist leader Zelimkhan Khangoshvili in Berlin in 2019. The German government was not ready to release him. In fact, Vadim Krasikov is a Russian citizen associated with the Russian intelligence agency FSB. A German court convicted Krasikov of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment. At that time Putin denied Russia&#39;s involvement in this murder. Putin described Krasikov as a Russian &quot;patriot&quot; without naming him in an interview. In a talk show, Putin also said that Russia is demanding the release of Krasikov in exchange for American journalist Ivan Gershkovich. Not only this, Krasikov was also a suspect in the murder that took place in Moscow in 2013. It is said that two years later in 2015, the arrest warrant against him was withdrawn. It was claimed that Krasikov had received full support of his country in the murder that took place in Berlin. Whereas Russia kept denying this. Russia has repeatedly called the allegations against Krasikov politically motivated. Now he has returned to his country.