These 5 cities are sinking rapidly in the sea, may disappear completely by 2100. Due to the rising sea level every day, some cities are on the verge of sinking. According to the &#39;World Economic Forum&#39;, these 5 cities may sink soon due to global warming. Due to the rise in global temperature and sea level, low-lying coastal cities are facing terrible floods. Some of these cities are on the verge of sinking due to rising sea levels and some are sinking due to excessive groundwater pumping. Groundwater pumping puts a lot of pressure on pressure and volume, due to which the land starts sinking. According to the &#39;World Economic Forum&#39;, these 5 cities are on the verge of sinking due to global warming. Jakarta, Indonesia: Due to excessive groundwater pumping, Indonesia&#39;s capital Jakarta is sinking by 6.7 inches every year. Most of this city may sink by the year 2050. The Indonesian government is thinking of shifting its capital 100 miles away from its current location on Java Island. Lagos, Nigeria: Rising sea levels due to global warming have created the risk of flooding in Lagos, Africa&#39;s largest city. According to a 2012 report by Plymouth University, a 3-9 foot rise in sea level in this area could have a devastating effect on human activities. Houston, Texas: This Texas city is sinking at the rate of 2 inches every year due to excessive groundwater extraction. Many parts of Houston are sinking badly. The more this city sinks, the more the risk of disasters will increase. Hurricane Harvey destroyed 135,000 houses in this city and displaced 30,000 people. Dhaka, Bangladesh: According to the New York Times, Bangladesh produces 0.3 percent of emissions for climate change. According to the report, this country is facing the biggest consequences of rising sea levels. By the year 2050, 17 percent of Bangladesh could be submerged in the land due to seas. This could displace 18 million people. Venice, Italy: According to the &#39;World Economic Forum&#39;, Venice is sinking by 0.08 inches every year. This Italian city is well known for its canals. Most of it is under water. There is a possibility of this city sinking completely into the sea at some point. In the year 2018, there were many storms in Venice, due to which this city had to suffer a lot of damage.    