Plants likely to absorb more CO2 in a changing climate than we thought ... Plants likely to absorb more CO2 in a changing climate than we thought Sydney. The world&#39;s vegetation has a remarkable ability to absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the air and store it as biomass. In doing so, plants slow climate change because the CO2 they take up does not contribute to global warming. But what if more drastic climate change occurs? How will vegetation respond to predicted changes in atmospheric CO2, temperature and precipitation? Our study, published today in Science Advances, shows that plants can absorb more CO2 than previously thought. We found climate modelling that best accounts for the processes that sustain plant life consistently predicted the strongest CO2 absorption. The most complex model&#39;s predictions were 20% higher than the simplest version. Our findings highlight the resilience of plants and the importance of planting trees and preserving existing vegetation to slow climate change. While this is good news, it does not allow us to relax in the fight against climate change. The rapid increase in atmospheric CO2 means we still need to cut emissions. What happens to the CO2 taken up by plants? Plants take up CO2 through photosynthesis. This process uses the sun&#39;s energy to convert or &#39;&#39;fix&#39;&#39; CO2 from the air into sugars that plants use for growth and metabolic activity. Plants release about half of that CO2 back into the atmosphere relatively quickly through respiration. The other half is used for growth and stays in the plant&#39;s biomass for a long time—from months to centuries. That biomass eventually dies and decomposes. Some of the carbon is released back into the atmosphere, but other parts get absorbed into the soil, where it can last for hundreds of years. So, if plants take up more CO2, it&#39;s likely that more carbon will be stored in vegetation and soils. Annual global carbon budget assessments have shown that this &#39;&#39;land sink&#39;&#39; of carbon has actually increased over the past few decades. In addition, the growing land carbon sink has been largely attributed to the beneficial effects of rising atmospheric CO2 on plant photosynthesis. This is important because carbon stored in plants and soils slows the rise in atmospheric CO2 and therefore global warming. A gap in current climate models But how do we know how much carbon has been captured and stored on land? Even more challenging is how can we predict what will happen in the future? One attempt to answer these questions is to use so-called terrestrial biosphere models. These models tell us how plants function and how they respond to changes in climate. For example, we know from experiments that plants photosynthesize more in high CO2 concentrations but photosynthesis is lower when they don&#39;t have enough water. The models describe all this knowledge through mathematical equations and allow them to communicate with each other. All this knowledge? Well, not really, and that was the motivation for our research. Although today&#39;s terrestrial biosphere models include a lot of processes, they don&#39;t necessarily account for all the mechanisms and processes we know exist. There may not be enough data or information available to confidently represent a process around the world, or it may be difficult – conceptually or technically – to include it in the model. What did the study look at? We incorporated three of those neglected processes into the well-established Australian terrestrial biosphere model. We calculated: how efficiently CO2 can move within the leaf how plants adapt to changes in the temperature around them how they deliver nutrients in the most economical way. We used the latest data and research publications to incorporate the processes as realistically as possible. We then faced the model with a strong climate change scenario and looked at how much CO2 plants would take up by the end of this century. We repeated this experiment with eight different versions of the model. The simplest version did not account for any of the three physiological mechanisms. The most complex version accounted for all three. The results were surprisingly clear: the more complex the model, the higher the predicted CO2 uptake by plants. Model versions that accounted for at least two mechanisms (those with greater ecological realism) consistently predicted the strongest CO2 uptake – up to 20% higher than the simplest version. What does this mean for climate action? This is important news for modellers. It tells us our current models, which are typically at the lower end of this complexity range, are likely to underestimate future CO2 uptake by plants. These results show that plants can be quite resilient even to severe climate change. However, we only observed this from the physiological perspective of the plant. Other processes in the models are still highly simplified, such as the effects of fire and drought and recovery from them. We clearly need to understand these processes better to get a full picture of how effectively plants will absorb CO2 in the future. And last but not least, because plants help fight climate change, it is essential to preserve the biomass of existing plants and restore lost vegetation. But while plants may be more diligent helpers than previously expected, they will never do the heavy work for us. It is still up to us humans to fight climate change by drastically cutting fossil fuel emissions. There are no shortcuts. Also read:- Shooting at a hospital in New Hampshire, one dead... Police kills gunman