Russia on Thursday released an American journalist Ivan Gershkovich and a former US Marine Paul Whelan as part of a prisoner exchange agreement involving several countries. Now he has also shared a photo with the families of Ivan, Paul, Vladimir Kara from the Oval Office and has given credit for the release of the prisoners to his allies. Biden described the prisoner exchange as a powerful example of why it is important to have friends in this world. Now information is coming that after the exchange of prisoners with Russia, three American citizens Ivan Gershkovich, Alsou Kurmasheva and Paul Whelan have reached America. Who have been welcomed by President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris. The US President expressed happiness by sharing a picture with the families of the released persons on the social media platform X and wrote, Today I stood with the families of Paul, Ivan, Alsou and Vladimir in the Oval Office. When they spoke to their family members for the first time after being released. These families never lost their hope and in this hope they will be reunited with their families. No money transaction took place in the exchange of prisoners. Meanwhile, US Presidential Security Advisor Jay Sullivan said that this is the largest exchange of prisoners in an East-West country since the Cold War and no money has been exchanged in the exchange of these prisoners. No sanctions have been imposed to facilitate this deal. Ivan Gorshkovich is a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reporter, who was arrested by Russia in March last year on charges of espionage. Former US Navy sailor Paul Whelan was arrested in Moscow in 2018 on charges of espionage. Russian-American journalist Alsou Kurmasheva was accused of spreading misinformation about the Russian military. Vladimir Kara-Murza, a vocal critic of Russia&#39;s war in Ukraine, was sentenced to 25 years in prison in 2023. Let us tell you that Vladimir has dual citizenship of Britain and Russia. Two years of diplomacy According to news agency Reuters, 16 people have been released in this historic exchange of prisoners between Russia, America and their allies. It took more than two years for the release of these people, which included secret negotiations and diplomacy involving Germany, Russia and America. According to news agency Reuters, this prisoner deal is the largest exchange between Russia and America in the post-Soviet history. This deal took place in Ankara, the capital of Turkey. According to Turkish officials, 10 prisoners, including two minors, were taken to Russia, 13 to Germany and three to the US. Wall Street Journal reporter Gershkovich was arrested in Russia in March 2023 on charges of espionage. The US government denied this. He was later sentenced to 16 years in a high-security Russian prison. Apart from America and Russia, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Norway and Belarus were also involved in this agreement.