Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on his Moscow visit on July 8 and 9, and during this he attended a summit meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. This is a picture that the Western countries do not want to see in the wake of the Russia-Ukraine war. Modi has chosen Russia for the first bilateral visit of his third term, and this is an important signal to Western leaders who are worried about this visit amid instability in Europe. The message to the West Putin has been barred, restricted and isolated by the US-led Western coalition since the invasion of Ukraine in 2022. This is the first India-Russia summit since 2021 and Modi&#39;s first meeting with Putin in Moscow after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The message to the West is clear that India is committed to maintaining its strategic independence. India-US Relations: Strengths and Challenges Despite the special relationship, there are tensions between India and the US on some issues. The US needs India in the Indo-Pacific, and India needs the US for trade and defense technology. However, there has been some cooling of the relationship due to sensitive issues such as the Nijjar-Pannu case. US internal interference The US State Department&#39;s Religious Freedom Report 2023 mentions attacks on Muslims and Christians in India, which India promptly rejected. The Indian Foreign Ministry called it biased and lacking understanding of India&#39;s social fabric. This highlights US interference which amounts to interference in India&#39;s internal policies. Balancing between Moscow and Washington The biggest concern of the US is the possible resumption of the Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral. Moscow wants to make the RIC an annual summit, but this is not possible in the near future due to the strained relations between India and China. India&#39;s stance and national interest India does not want to get too close to the Russia-China equation. Moscow&#39;s attempt to expand BRICS is also a matter of concern for India, as it may weaken India&#39;s position. India wants to establish itself as a balancing point between the US and the China-Russia alliance to balance its interests. 2030 Outlook By 2030, India will potentially become a $7 trillion economy. By this time, India&#39;s per capita income will be $5,500 in nominal terms and $12,000 in purchasing power parity (PPP). This economic growth will empower India to play an important role on the global stage. Economic Aspects of the Moscow Visit In Moscow, Modi will get first-hand information on the Ukraine war. Despite this, Russia&#39;s economy is growing at more than 3 per cent per year, faster than most European economies. India now buys half of its crude oil from Russia and rupee-ruble trade is on the rise. The move aligns the interests of the two countries to move away from a dollar-dependent global economy. Message of strategic autonomy Modi did not attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Kazakhstan last week but sent External Affairs Minister Jaishankar, while Xi Jinping and Putin were present at the meeting. The move was a message of strategic autonomy to both the West and the Moscow-Beijing alliance. Conclusion Prime Minister Modi&#39;s visit to Moscow and meeting with Putin is a strong message to the West. It reflects India&#39;s commitment to strategic autonomy and upholding its national interests. The visit also highlights India&#39;s efforts to maintain a balance in relations with the US and Russia, which will play an important role in global politics in the times to come. Read more:- What is the benefit to India from the victory of the Labor Party in Britain? Leave a Reply