PM Narendra Modi interacted with Indian expatriates in Moscow during his visit to Russia. A large group of expatriates had come here to listen to PM Modi. During this, he addressed the people on India-Russia relations and several issues of the country. During this, he said that the relations between India and Russia have always progressed. PM Modi said during his address that this is the first time he is speaking to an expatriate group after he became PM for the third time. During this, he also presented the achievements of his tenure and the goals of the new government. During this, he also talked about the recent World Cup victory and the consistently good performance in sports. #WATCH | Moscow, Russia: Prime Minister Narendra Modi says &quot;The song was once sung in every household here, &#39;Sir pe lal topi Russi, phir bhi dil hai Hindustani.&#39; This song may have become old, but the sentiments are ever-green. Artists like Raj Kapoor, Mithoon Da have… pic.twitter.com/0xkaly61sR — ANI (@ANI) July 9, 2024 On Russia-India relations, he said, &quot;India and Russia are walking shoulder to shoulder to give new energy to global prosperity. Everyone present here is giving a boost to the relations between the two countries. On hearing the name of Russia, every Indian remembers a friend of good and bad days. No matter how low the temperature goes during winters in Russia, the relations between the two countries have always reached new heights. This relationship is based on mutual partnership and trust.&quot; PM Modi said that since 2014, he has visited Russia 6 times. He said that he has also met President Putin 17 times. He said that President Putin has done a lot to advance the relations between the two countries. PM Modi also praised the help given by President Putin in evacuating Indian students from Ukraine. During this, he also mentioned Raj Kapoor and Mithun Chakraborty and said that both these artists have taken the relations forward through films. PM Modi announced that India will open two more new commercial consulates in Russia. Both of these will be opened in Kazan and Yekaterinburg of Russia. PM Modi said that the Indian community is the brand ambassador of the relations between the two countries. He has announced to build another new transport corridor between the two countries. PM Modi is currently on a two-day visit to Russia. Here he is participating in the Russia-India summit. This is the 22nd edition of this summit. PM Modi had also visited President Putin&#39;s house before this. Here he discussed many issues of India-Russia relations with President Putin. After this he is going to Austria.