Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who arrived on a visit to Russia, has been awarded the highest honor by Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin honored Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Russia&#39;s highest civilian honor, the Order of St. Andrew the Apostle. During this, PM Modi once again taught Putin the lesson of peace, and also ended Zelensky&#39;s resentment over the first day of the tour. Actually, Zelensky had taunted PM Modi on the first day of his visit, but on the second day PM Modi shut the mouth of the whole world by raising the issue of terrorism. Russia gave the country&#39;s highest honor to PM Modi Russian President Vladimir Putin honored PM Modi with his country&#39;s highest honor. Putin honored PM Modi with the highest civilian honor, the Order of St. Andrew the Apostle. For which the Prime Minister thanked President Putin. PM Modi said, “This is an honor of 140 crore Indians. It is a reflection of the centuries-old friendship between India and Russia. The Prime Minister said that this is an honor of the special and privileged partnership between India and Russia. He said that under Putin&#39;s leadership, relations between India and Russia have strengthened in the last 25 years.&quot; Honoured to receive the Order of St. Andrew the Apostle. I dedicate it to the people of India. https://t.co/62BXBsg1Ii — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 9, 2024 Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed with Russian President Vladimir Putin on the second day of his visit to Russia. The PM raised the issue of terrorism during talks with Putin. The PM said that terrorism remains a threat to every country. PM Modi raised the issue of death of children in front of Putin. He said, &quot;Be it war, any kind of conflict or terrorist attack. There is loss of life in it. Every person who believes in humanity suffers when there is loss of life. In that too, when innocent children are killed, the heart is pierced. This pain is terrible. There has also been a discussion with you in this matter.&quot; PM Modi also raised the issue of Moscow concert attack and Dagestan terrorist attack. Held productive discussions with President Putin at the Kremlin today. Our talks covered ways to diversify India-Russia cooperation in sectors such as trade, commerce, security, agriculture, technology and innovation. We attach great importance to boosting connectivity and… pic.twitter.com/JfiidtNYa8 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 9, 2024 In fact, when PM Modi met Putin on the first day of his visit, at the same time Russia had targeted a hospital in Ukraine with a missile attack. In such a situation, Zelensky had targeted PM Modi&#39;s meeting with Putin. He wrote on X, &quot;37 people were killed and 170 injured in Ukraine today in Russia&#39;s brutal missile attack. To see the leader of the world&#39;s largest democracy hugging the world&#39;s bloodiest criminal on such a day in Moscow is a huge disappointment and a devastating blow to peace efforts.&quot; In Ukraine today, 37 people were killed, three of whom were children, and 170 were injured, including 13 children, as a result of Russia&#39;s brutal missile strike. — Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) July 8, 2024 A Russian missile struck the largest children&#39;s hospital in Ukraine, targeting young cancer patients. Many were… pic.twitter.com/V1k7PEz2rJ Although India did not give any direct reply to this then, but when PM Modi and Putin met the next day, PM Modi raised all the issues in front of Putin. PM Modi said a big thing without even taking the name of Zelensky and Ukraine, after which Zelensky also indirectly thanked PM Modi. He told on X that the number of people killed in the attack on the hospital has risen to 38, but he thanks the countries that have raised the issue of Ukraine. The rescue operation after yesterday&#39;s Russian missile attack continues. — Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) July 9, 2024 As of now, 38 people have been reported dead, including four children. My condolences to all the families and friends affected by this tragedy. 190 people were injured and are receiving assistance. There… pic.twitter.com/T7kfLkggKx Let us tell you that relations between India and Russia are very old and strong. Russia is also India&#39;s biggest defence partner. Both the countries stand for each other. However, India has continuously taught Russia a lesson about the Ukraine attack. In such a situation, even western countries are not able to oppose India. At the same time, the relationship between India and Russia is getting stronger. Meanwhile, on his visit to Russia, Vladimir Putin has invited PM Modi to the BRICS summit in Kazan. This summit will be held in Russia from 22 to 24 October.