The Russia-Ukraine war completed two years on 24 February. This war has taken the lives of millions of people and affected the economy of the world. In Ukraine, millions of people had to become homeless and cities were destroyed. The war has entered the third year but there seems to be no possibility of a ceasefire. Meanwhile, America also seemed to have raised its hands but Ukraine is still hoping for help. Let us know in this report how important self-reliance is and how dependence can create a crisis. 1. Military strength: Military strength is the most important in war. The Ukrainian army has a manpower of five lakhs but they have been standing against the Russian army which is four times bigger than this for two years. The Russian army, which is technically strong, long-range and equipped with ultra-modern weapons, failed to &#39;deal&#39; with Ukraine even in two years. The Ukrainian army has fought the Russian army strongly with great intelligence and American help. 2. Cyber war: Russia has mastered the matter of hacking and it also used it very well in the Ukraine war. With the attack on Ukraine, Russia almost paralyzed the functioning of the Ukrainian government. Russian hackers carried out cyber attacks on all important websites of the Ukrainian government immediately after the attack. Cyber attacks proved to be helpful for Russia in furthering the ground war. Ukraine also did not lag behind and it also responded to Russia. With the help of cyberspace, important information can be collected by intercepting connectivity, support intelligence and exchange of information on the battlefield, which can be used in war. 3. Satellite data: In September 2022, Ukraine purchased radar satellites with publicly collected funds, which helped the army to see through the clouds and it proved easy for the Ukrainian army to target enemy targets. With the help of high resolution images, the Ukrainian army attacked Russian targets with precision. 4. Unmanned weapons: Unmanned weapons are considered the new darling of war. For example, Ukraine has recently established a separate military unit, from where only drones will be operated. Apart from these, this unit has also been given the responsibility of operating air, sea and land unmanned weapons, which increases the importance of unmanned weapons. 5. Self-reliance: Analysts say that if a country is completely or only slightly dependent on someone for military equipment, then it can affect their ground operation. Ukraine is completely dependent on Western countries in this matter, and 30 percent of Russia&#39;s defense production is dependent on foreign equipment. For example, a big lesson that any country learns from the war is to increase the production of military equipment locally and reduce dependence on other countries. 6. Use of OSINT: If media reports are to be believed, Ukraine has fought Russia very cleverly. For example, the Ukrainian army killed a large number of Russian soldiers using social media. It is said that the Ukrainian army achieved good success in ground operations by using selfies and videos of Russian soldiers. Due to this, the Putin administration had banned mobile phones on the battlefield. 7. Corruption: During the war, weapons are bought and sold in large quantities. Corruption is also seen in this. There has been a lot of fraud in the purchase and sale of military equipment in Ukraine. In this war, military leaders of both the countries were accused of corruption and irregularities in the purchase and sale of weapons. Wagner Chief Yevgeny Prigozhin was constantly accusing the Russian Defense Department of corruption. Ukraine also had to ban military officers from leaving the country due to the investigation of corruption. 8. Limitations of sanctions: The first thing that Western countries did after the start of the war was to impose sanctions on Russia. From the US to the European Union, everyone imposed strict sanctions on Russia, so that pressure could be put on President Putin. However, even then they failed to stop Vladimir Putin and today it is clear that Western and European sanctions did not have much effect on Russia. 9. Their priorities: When Russia attacked Ukraine, there was a sense of narcissism in Western and European countries, due to which they were assuming that the whole world would support the West in pressurizing Putin, but this did not happen. For example, the Global South, India, China and South Africa and other countries considered their priorities important. Western countries suffered a major setback from this. 10. Energy security: The Russia-Ukraine war caused an energy crisis in Europe in 2022. For example, in the initial phase, it was seen that many European countries went to the Western camp with a view to pressurizing Russia, but soon they were surrounded by an energy crisis. For example, countries like Germany were ahead among European countries in pressurizing Russia. The dependence of European countries on Russian energy gave a big setback to European countries. This crisis taught the world that excessive dependence on energy or any other fuel can create big problems during war.