New Delhi: The Delhi Meitei Coordination Committee (DMCC) has sought to know from Prime Minister Narendra Modi why his heart aches only for those killed in the Ukraine war and not for those killed due to the ongoing ethnic conflict in Manipur. According to the report, in a statement issued on July 11, the DMCC said that Prime Minister Modi&#39;s efforts to promote peace have been appreciated on the international stage, but his &#39;apparent neglect&#39; towards the serious domestic crisis in Manipur has raised significant concerns among citizens and political observers. The DMCC statement said that the Prime Minister has not shown interest in visiting Manipur, which is 2,411 km away from Delhi and just 2 hours 50 minutes away by air. The statement said, &#39;Modi&#39;s heart aches when innocent children are killed in the war between Russia and Ukraine, but his heart does not melt when hundreds of innocent people, including children, are killed in Manipur. His own citizens have been ignored.&#39; It further said, &#39;The failure of the Government of India to resolve the violence in Manipur has shown that the region is being ignored and marginalized. The residents of Manipur feel neglected and believe that the central government is using the state as a pawn for national security interests rather than ensuring the safety and well-being of the people of the state.&#39; Citing data from Modi&#39;s official website, the DMCC said that Modi visited Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat the most in 2017. He visited these states 21 times each. The Prime Minister has visited Sikkim, Mizoram and Puducherry only once in the last four years, while Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland have been visited only twice. Between 2014 and 2018, he made the most visits of 49 to Uttar Pradesh, which includes both official and unofficial visits. &quot;However, he has failed to visit violence-hit Manipur, where the conflict has claimed hundreds of innocent lives on both sides,&quot; the statement said. The Modi government&#39;s response to the Manipur crisis has been largely evasive. Prime Minister Modi was forced to break his silence on July 20, 70 days after the violence began in the state last year, when a gruesome video of two Kuki women being paraded naked surfaced online. Modi was compelled to speak after national and global outrage. He also spoke on the Manipur conflict in Parliament after the opposition brought a no-confidence motion against his government in August last year. As recently as July 3, Modi said in Parliament that incidents of violence were &quot;constantly decreasing&quot; and his government was &quot;making efforts&quot; to normalise the situation in the state. More than 200 people have been killed and thousands injured since the violence began on May 3 last year. More than 60,000 people have been displaced and are taking shelter in relief camps. Kuki organizations said - they have no information about the Chief Minister&#39;s &#39;peace talks&#39;. While talking to the media in the capital Imphal on Wednesday, Chief Minister N. Biren Singh had said that talks have started between the Kuki and Meitei communities directly involved in the ongoing conflict in Manipur, but the apex body of the tribal Kuki community, Kuki Impi Manipur (KIM), said on Thursday that it has no information about any &#39;peace talks&#39; between the Kuki-Jo people and the Meitei. Also, Hindustan Times has reported that KIM has said in a statement issued to the press that Kuki Impi will remain committed to its resolution of political boycott of the Manipur government. They have accused the state government of conspiring and carrying out the oppression of the Kuki-Jo people. The statement said that the people of the Kuki-Zo community, who have been victims of the alleged state-sponsored ethnic cleansing campaign of the Manipur government, cannot negotiate with the oppressors for justice and equality of their people. It further said, &#39;The demand for a Union Territory with an Assembly for the Kuki-Zo people has long been placed before the Government of India for constitutional action and the Kuki-Zo people are committed to it till the fulfillment of this demand.&#39; The statement further recorded, &#39;Any peace talks or political dialogue without the knowledge of the Kuki Inpi and its constituent organisations is only an illusion. The Kuki Inpi and its constituent organisations are the only legitimate bodies to find a way forward for the Kuki-Zo people.&#39; Meanwhile, the Kuki Students&#39; Organisation (KSO) has urged the Chief Minister to reveal the exact details of the talks held between the Kukis and the Meitei regarding the Manipur crisis and restoration of peace. It is worth mentioning that the CM did not give details of the talks or its progress. The KSO has issued a statement saying, &quot;The CM must disclose the exact details about the organisation or individual involved in the peace talks. If this is true, we demand transparency and accountability from the CM about these talks.&quot; The student organisation claimed that it was not aware of any peace talks between the Chief Minister or any valley-based civil society organisation (CSO) and alleged that the Chief Minister has once again staged a media drama to save his reputation before the Centre and the general public. The KSO clarified that till date no formal invitation has been received from any government agency for peace talks. It asserted that the CM cannot claim such talks without the involvement and presence of the Central government and the knowledge of the Kuki community. Meanwhile, the Kuki Village Volunteers Group also in a statement on Wednesday summoned all the individuals or organisations participating in the said &#39;peace talks&#39; and directed them to apologise to all stakeholders, including the CSOs and Kuki Village Volunteers, within 48 hours. The group said they will not tolerate any individual or group who participate in any talks without consulting CSOs, including KIM, KSO and Kuki Women Human Rights Organisation. It warned that anyone found violating the warning will face punishment, including social boycott and other harsh measures.