In Russia, on Sunday (23 June 2024), terrorist attacks took place in two cities (Makhachkala and Derbent) of the southern province of Dagestan. More than 15 policemen were killed in the incident, the pastor was beheaded and more than 25 are reported to be injured. In retaliation, Russian security forces have also killed 6 gunmen. According to the information, on Sunday, terrorists armed with weapons attacked two Orthodox churches, a Jewish prayer house and a police post. The Orthodox Church pastor was also among those killed in the attack. The terrorists have killed him separately by slitting his throat. He was 66 years old. He had been serving in the church for 40 years. Apart from this, the security guard posted outside the church was also killed. At the same time, the Russian Jewish Congress has told in this regard that one synagogue each has been attacked in Derbent and Makhachkala. When the attack was carried out in the synagogue of Derbent, prayers had been done 40 minutes before that and no one was present there. The attackers set the synagogue building on fire with a Molotov cocktail bomb. During this, policemen and security guards standing outside were killed in the attack. Today in Russia: Muslim terrorists take 40 hostages in an Orthodox Church and behead a priest. — Daily Romania (@daily_romania) June 23, 2024 To stop Islamic terrorism, you have two options: deport millions or do what China does. Alternatively, you can just let your people die, which is what Europe seems to prefer. Praying… pic.twitter.com/R8af1JkfvT Let us tell you that no organization has yet claimed responsibility for this entire attack, but TASS reported that the attackers were members of an international terrorist organization. At the same time, Russia has blamed Ukraine and NATO countries for the attacks. Dagestan leader Abdulkhakim Gadjiyev wrote on Telegram, “There is no doubt that these terrorist attacks are in some way connected to the intelligence services of Ukraine and NATO countries.” 🚨🇷🇺RUSSIA: GUNMEN ATTACK ORTHODOX TEMPLE AND SYNAGOGUE — Mario Nawfal (@MarioNawfal) June 23, 2024 Gunmen opened fire on a synagogue and Orthodox Church in Derbent in the Republic of Dagestan, leading to a fire breaking out at the synagogue. Additionally, a police checkpoint in Makhachkala was targeted by gunfire,… pic.twitter.com/1WpMPy7wRk It is known that earlier there was a terrorist attack in Russia in March. 143 people were killed in that attack. ISIS-K claimed responsibility for the attack. However, Russia had accused Ukraine of being complicit in it. This time no organization has claimed responsibility for the attack yet, but it has come to light that Dagestan is a province of Russia with a large Muslim population, which is next to Chechnya. Three days of mourning have been observed in the region on June 14, 25, 26.