Why did Russia attack Ukraine? Why did the world get tensed with a move by Russian President Vladimir Putin? What does Russia want from Ukraine? Why did two neighboring countries become enemies of each other? What did Ukraine do that Russia started firing its missiles on Ukraine, incurring the displeasure of America and NATO member countries? There are many such questions whose answers the world wants to know. We tell you why Russia has declared war in this area of Eastern Europe? 1- Russia and Ukraine are siblings Just like independent India and Pakistan came into existence on the same day, the Russian Republic and Ukraine came into existence on the same day. This day was 25 December 1991. On this day Soviet Russia (USSR) disintegrated and 15 new countries were formed. Ukraine and Russia were also among these 15 countries. Let us tell you that before 1991, Soviet Russia led the communist block in the world&#39;s bipolar system and it had tremendous competition with America. There was such fierce rivalry between Soviet Russia and America that both the countries came on the brink of war many times. The world knows this period from 1945 to 1991 as the Cold War. But capitalist America remained victorious in this race and on 25 December 1991, USSR was divided into 15 countries. With this, America became the leader of the whole world. 2- Russia remained disappointed in 1991 USSR was divided into many parts in 1991. Many Russians swallowed this incident as an insult. Because the leader of the 15 republics that were part of USSR was the Russian Republic itself and it was very upset by this. Russia&#39;s condition was very weak then. It had to bear the fall of its empire even though it did not want to. It remained disappointed. Here, even after the disintegration of USSR, America kept suppressing Russia. Through the military organization NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization), America started luring the countries that had separated from the USSR and started bringing these countries under its influence. Ukraine Russia Crisis: The thought in Putin&#39;s mind that wants to change the history of the world! 3- NATO has made Eastern Europe an arena for diplomacy. In 1991, 15 countries separated from the USSR. These countries are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. In 2004, 3 of these 15 countries, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia became members of NATO. This meant that America had now reached Russia&#39;s neck. Because these three countries located in the Baltic region had emerged from the USSR and their borders touched Russia. Let us tell you that there is an agreement between NATO countries that if any one NATO country is attacked, then all NATO members will consider it an attack on them and will respond with their combined military power. There are currently 30 countries in NATO. In this way, America started surrounding Russia through NATO. 4- Ukraine wants to become a NATO member, Putin does not agree at all. Ukraine and Russia share borders. Ukraine also wanted to join NATO to increase its power. Ukraine, taking advantage of its geographical position, started demanding from America that it should also be made a member of NATO. Putin was very irritated by this move of Ukrainian President Zelsinki. He started sending his army to the Ukraine border. This is the immediate reason for Russia&#39;s tension with Ukraine. 5- Putin calls Ukraine a puppet of the West Russia openly calls Ukraine a puppet of the Western world. Russia says that NATO member countries, including America, should give a written guarantee that they do not carry out their military activities in Eastern Europe and Ukraine. Putin also says that Ukraine was never an independent state. Russia Ukraine War Live Updates: Ukraine&#39;s big claim - 50 Russian soldiers killed, 6 planes shot down 6- Putin has been on the agenda since 1999 When the US was increasing its activities in Eastern Europe under the cover of NATO, Putin also did not sit idle. Putin has also said earlier that if he had his way, he would reverse the disintegration of the USSR. Let us tell you that Putin entered Russian politics in the year 1999. After this, he became the President in 2000. Since then, he has been trying to &#39;correct&#39; the alleged &#39;historic mistake&#39; of 1991. Putin had annexed Chechnya to Russia in 1999 itself. Since then, Putin has been trying to regain the ancient glory of the USSR. The strategic step that Putin has taken today, Putin had done the same in 2008 as well. He recognized two states of Georgia, which were part of the USSR, as independent countries and built his military base there. 7- Occupation of Crimea In 2014, Putin occupied Crimea, which was a part of Ukraine. Crimea is a region located in the Black Sea. It is close to both Ukraine and Russia. A large population here speaks Russian. Putin first formed a pro-Russian government here and then sent his army and occupied this area. 8- Ukraine may be a separate country but Russian culture has a wide influence. The Russian occupation of Crimea put America and NATO in tension. America understood that if Russia is not stopped, then Ukraine&#39;s independent existence can also be in danger. Therefore, efforts were made to merge Ukraine into NATO. But Putin was opposing it. Actually, Russia has a wide influence in the population of Ukraine. Here one out of every five people speaks Russian language. Russia has cultural influence here. If we talk about the eastern part of Ukraine, then the people here consider themselves close to Russia, while the people of the west consider themselves close to Europe. There is a fight for this dominance in this country. The eastern part of Ukraine is adjacent to Russia and people here speak Russian while in the west it is just the opposite. Citing this cultural influence, Russian elites consider the merger of the eastern part of Ukraine with Russia to be justified. 9- Putin had expressed his intentions by recognising Luhansk and Donetsk as sovereign countries. President Putin first recognised two regions of Ukraine, Luhansk and Donetsk, as independent countries. Both these regions are located in this eastern region of Ukraine. Here Russia, as a part of strategy, encourages separatist forces and openly calls this region a part of Russia&#39;s historical republic citing history and geography. Working on this strategy, Putin recognised two troubled regions of Ukraine as sovereign nations on 21 February. 10- As soon as the opportunity came, Russian missiles started roaring in Kiev. With this move of Putin, the world had got an idea of Russia&#39;s next move. Putin gradually sent his army towards these two regions. It is interesting here that Russia does not call the attack on Ukraine an occupation. Russia claims that it wants to liberate the people of Ukraine from Ukrainian oppression. On 24 February, when ballistic missiles started wreaking havoc in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv early in the morning, Russia once again said that it is launching this attack to liberate the people of Ukraine and that it has no intention of capturing the cities.