Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a two-day visit to Russia. Prime Minister Modi reached the Russian capital on Monday (July 8, 2024) and met President Vladimir Putin. The two leaders met after 2 years. President Putin had invited PM Modi to his residence. Here both of them held informal talks. President Putin congratulated PM Modi on his victory in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. President Putin expressed happiness on seeing PM Modi during the conversation between the two leaders. In an informal conversation with PM Modi, President Putin said, &quot;I want to congratulate you on becoming the Prime Minister. I think this has not happened by chance, but it is the result of your many years of work as the head of the Government of India. You have your own ideas. You are a very energetic person, you know how to achieve good results in the interests of India and the Indian people.&quot; PM Modi thanked President Putin for inviting him to his residence. PM Modi said, &quot;It is a great pleasure to visit a friend&#39;s house. You invited me to your house. I want to thank you for making such an interesting program. Thank you very much.&quot; PM Modi said on India&#39;s Lok Sabha elections, &quot;Elections in India have been very important and on a large scale. India is the largest democracy in the world, it is considered the &#39;mother of democracy&#39;, and about 65 crore people voted in this election. For the first time in 60 years, a government has won its third term.&quot; This meeting of President Putin and PM Modi took place at the residence in Novo Ogaryovo near Moscow. After the talks here, President Putin showed PM Modi his pet horses. Both the leaders fed carrots to the horses. President Putin then himself sat on the driving seat of an electric car and took PM Modi for a ride. #WATCH | Visuals of PM Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Novo-Ogaryovo — ANI (@ANI) July 8, 2024 (Source: Russia in India Twitter handle) pic.twitter.com/toefzIyq7c It is being told that during this informal conversation, PM Modi raised the issue of Indians working in the Russian army with President Putin. Media reports have said that now the Russian side has agreed to release all the Indians working in the army and make arrangements for their return to the country. It is worth noting that many Indians were recruited in the Russian army to fight Ukraine. Many youths were recruited here on the basis of lies. PM Modi will attend official talks with President Putin on Tuesday (July 9, 2024). This conversation will be held under the Russia-India Summit. This is its 22nd edition. During this conversation, there is speculation of talks on many issues including Ukraine-Russia conflict, India-Russia trade and mutual strategic partnership. Many countries of the world including America are eyeing this conversation and its results. PM Modi will go to the European country Austria after this conversation. This will be the visit of an Indian Prime Minister to Austria after 4 decades. Here he will also meet Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen and Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer. Here he will also meet Indians living in Austria. In this visit to Austria, there will be talks on increasing cooperation between the two countries. Along with this, emphasis will also be laid on increasing trade and technical cooperation with Austria.