The crash of a Russian plane carrying Ukrainian prisoners of war has once again shown how serious the situation is between the two countries, which have been at war since February 2022. Russia says Kiev shot down the plane in the Russian border city of Belgorod. There were 65 Ukrainian soldiers on board. The city of Belgorod has repeatedly faced shelling from Ukraine in recent months. Kiev has criticized Russia for spreading propaganda, but has not ruled out its possible role in the downing of the plane. The incident comes at a time when the Ukrainian army is struggling to continue the fight on the front lines amid Russia&#39;s continued advance. Russia, which suffered humiliating setbacks in 2022, has regained momentum on the battlefield. Last year, a top Ukrainian general admitted that the counteroffensive launched in June 2023 with the aim of recapturing Russian-occupied areas in the south and east had failed. Russia has made territorial gains in the east, seizing Marinka and advancing towards Avdiivka and Kupiansk. Amid heavy losses on the battlefield, Ukrainian generals are calling for the mobilisation of 500,000 troops – a move that would be extremely unpopular. Worse, the changing mood in Washington has sent a dangerous message to Kiev. Volodymyr Zelensky’s government has promised to uncover the truth behind the plane crash. If the plane was shot down by a Ukrainian missile, it would pose a political challenge for Mr Zelensky. But he faces a bigger problem in the future of this war. So far, he has displayed a brave tone and said that Ukraine will fight until victory – that is, to reclaim all the territory occupied by Russia. Even though Russia’s occupation of Ukrainian territory and the war it has waged is a violation of international law, Ukraine has no practical path to victory. Israel&#39;s attack on Gaza, which has the full support of the Biden administration, has also diverted the world&#39;s attention from Ukraine. If US Republican leader Donald Trump, who has vowed to end this war in a few days, is re-elected in November, Ukraine may come under tremendous pressure. The war cannot continue without the uninterrupted support of the US and its NATO allies. While the pressure is increasing on the battlefield, Ukraine is facing missile and drone attacks within Russia. Being equipped with advanced weapons supplied by Western countries has increased Ukraine&#39;s firepower. Last week, a fuel export terminal located on Russia&#39;s Baltic coast was attacked. Both sides are drenched with suspicion, deep distrust and misinformation, which can increase violence and accidents. Russia, Ukraine and NATO should make a more practical assessment of the progress of this war and be ready for dialogue instead of continuing this endless war that harms all parties.