The Prime Minister of the country Narendra Modi has left for a 3-day (8-10 July) foreign tour. He will visit Russia and Austria in these three days. This is the second important foreign tour of Prime Minister Modi after assuming office for the third time. This is the first bilateral visit in this tenure. In this tour, PM Modi will also meet Russian President Vladimir Putin. PM Modi had last visited Russia in 2019. After this, due to the Kovid epidemic and then the Ukraine Russia conflict, the leaders of both the countries could not visit each other&#39;s country. PM Modi is going to Russia for the first time after the Ukraine war. Meanwhile, Putin has not met any other big leader except Chinese President Xi Jinping. #WATCH | PM Narendra Modi embarks on a three-day official visit to Russia and Austria — ANI (@ANI) July 8, 2024 PM Modi and President Vladimir Putin will hold the 22nd India-Russia Annual Summit in Moscow. On 9th July, PM Modi will travel to Austria, where he will meet President Alexander Van der Bellen… pic.twitter.com/h2XuTdn79O In his visit, PM Modi will meet President Putin as well as participate in a program of interaction with Indians living in Russia. Apart from this, he will be awarded Russia&#39;s highest honor, the Order of St. Andrew. He was given this award in 2019, now he will receive it. PM Modi will also discuss trade and military cooperation between India and Russia with President Putin. India is continuously buying large quantities of crude oil from Russia. Due to this, India&#39;s trade deficit is also increasing. There will also be talks about this. The main issue in the talks between the two leaders will be the Ukraine-Russia war. This war has been going on for more than 2 years and no agreement has been reached between the two conflicting countries. India maintains good relations with both countries and has worked to calm the atmosphere many times. Will also participate in the annual summit: The rest of the world including America is also keeping an eye on this visit of PM Modi. Here he will also participate in the India-Russia summit with President Putin. This is the biggest platform for diplomatic cooperation between the two countries. PM Modi participated in it for the last time in 2019. Its 21 editions have been completed so far. It was last held in Delhi. Regarding this visit, PM Modi wrote on Twitter, &quot;Over the next three days, I will be in Russia and Austria. These visits will be a wonderful opportunity to deepen ties with these nations, with whom India has time tested friendship. I am also looking forward to interacting with the Indian community living in these countries.&quot; I also look forward to interacting with the Indian community living in these countries.… — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 8, 2024 On this visit of PM Modi, Russia has said that western countries are jealous of this and are taking it very seriously. Russia said that this visit is going to be important, that&#39;s why western countries are taking it very seriously. After Russia, PM Modi will also visit the European country Austria. This will be the first visit of an Indian Prime Minister to Austria in 41 years. Prime Minister Modi will meet both the President and Chancellor of Austria and will also interact with the Indian community living in Vienna.