Amid the Russia-Ukraine war, Israel-Hamas war and growing confrontation between Iran and Israel, the US-Russia and Western countries together took a major initiative on Thursday. These countries exchanged prisoners lodged in each other&#39;s jails. Middle East country Turkey had mediated for this deal. A total of 26 prisoners were released under the deal. Of these, 10 prisoners were sent to Russia. 13 prisoners were sent to Germany and 3 prisoners to America. After being released from Russia, Wall Street Journal journalist Ivan Gershkovich has also returned to his country. This is the third deal related to the exchange of prisoners between the US and Russia in the last 3 years. Earlier, there was an exchange of prisoners between the two countries in April 2022 and December 2022. Why did the Putin-PM Modi meeting in Russia raise hope among the people of Matour village in Haryana? This is the reason The Turkish President&#39;s Office said that this is the biggest exchange of prisoners between the US and Russia since the days of the Cold War. The exchange, conducted by Turkey&#39;s MIT intelligence service, involved prisoners from the United States, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Norway, Belarus and Russia. Journalist Ivan Gershkovich returned to America. Russia has released Ivan Gershkovich, a journalist of the American media house Wall Street Journal (WSJ). Ivan was arrested by Russia in March last year from the eastern city of Yekaterinburg, 1600 km from Moscow, on charges of spying for the US intelligence agency CIA. Last month, Russia convicted Ivan Gershkovich. He was sentenced to 16 years. Apart from Ivan, Paul Whelan, who was a part of the US Navy, and radio journalist Alsou Kurmasheva have also been released. Paul Whelan was also accused of spying for Russia. While Alsou was accused of spreading fake news about the Russian army. &quot;If America fulfills its intention...&quot;: Putin warns of a missile crisis like the Cold War era Vladimir Putin awaits his &#39;hitman&#39; In the prisoner exchange, 10 Russian prisoners have been released. The most prominent name among them is Vadim Krasikov. He is said to be the hitman of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Vadim had shot an enemy of Russia in Berlin in 2019. Since then he was imprisoned in a US jail. According to a BBC report, Krasikov has been brought to the Turkish capital Ankara via Berlin, the capital of Germany. Apart from this, prisoners Vinnik, Maxim Marchenko, and Vladislav Klushin have also been released. However, no further information has been given about them. Despite concerns over relations with Russia, India will remain a strategic partner: America Track the latest news on NDTV.in and get news updates from every corner of the country and around the world