PM Modi recently went to Russia on a two-day visit. During this, many decisions were taken in a meeting with President Vladimir Putin. The most important decision was the safe return of Indians trapped in the war in Ukraine and compensation to the families of the killed soldiers. Indian youths had gone there by mistake in the war that has been going on for more than two years. Many such people are still there. Why did Russia need foreign soldiers? Last year, the email account of a military officer posted in the Western Military District was hacked. It mentioned the recruitment of foreign youths in the Russian army and sending them to fight in Ukraine with a short training. Many other countries that were formerly a part of the Soviet Union, and consider themselves closer to Russia than Ukraine, also started coming to join the fight. These include Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Latvia. But all of them had come knowingly to fight, while the case of Indian youths was different. They were called not to fight in the war, but to help the army in small tasks. That&#39;s why Russia kept recruiting foreign fighters. Russia has been accused of hiring mercenaries during wars. This has its own benefits. For example, the host country&#39;s own people remain safe. By sending foreign fighters in dangerous situations, our own people are kept safe. Since foreign fighters are not directly from the army, countries can shirk responsibility for them whenever they want. Apart from this, the risk of foreign soldiers having intelligence information is minimal. This is the reason why Russia kept recruiting foreign fighters. It also has a private army, Wagner Group, whose aggression has always been questioned. The Polish Institute of International Affairs published a study during the Russia-Ukraine war in 2014, which claimed that Russia also recruits citizens of other countries whose economic condition is weak, by paying them huge amounts. This included Bosnian and Serbian youth, and fighters from war-affected countries like Syria and Libya. How Indians got trapped to work in the Russian army An NDTV report quoted the CBI as saying that the human trafficking network is spread from New Delhi to Tamil Nadu. They contact young men from poor economic conditions through social media platforms and local agents and lure them with a great job in Russia. As soon as these young men reach Russia, their passports are snatched and after giving them some basic training, they are sent directly to the war. The police also detained many people from the racket. How many were cheated Government data says that 30 to 40 Indian citizens are currently in the Russian army. About 4 of these people have been killed. However, this number can be higher. Since the youth joined the army secretly, it is difficult to give exact figures. How India solved the problem The Ministry of External Affairs had raised this issue earlier as well. But now PM Modi talked about it during his visit to Russia. Russia now seems to be taking direct action on this. It is promising the return of Indians involved as support staff as soon as possible. Along with this, it will also give compensation and Russian citizenship (if desired) to the families of those killed in the war. Did youths from any other country other than India also reach there? Nepal has already said that many of its youths have joined the army illegally. This number can be more than 200. In January this year, the Nepal government stopped giving permits to its people for Russia and Ukraine. Sri Lanka had also made similar allegations. It said that not only Russia, Ukraine also made false promises to its people and deceived them into the war. Allegedly, 37 such Sri Lankan youths were badly injured, while many have died. The death toll is not clear here. Let us tell you here that Nepal has an agreement that its fighters can join the army of India and Britain. On the other hand, Sri Lanka does not allow its people to serve in the foreign army.