Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reached Austria after finishing his Russia visit. Meanwhile, a statement has come from the US. The US believes that India&#39;s close ties with Russia can inspire President Vladimir Putin to end the Ukraine war. White House spokeswoman Karine Jean-Pierre made this statement on Tuesday (July 9). She made this comment when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Putin that the death of innocent children is painful and horrific, a day after a deadly attack on a children&#39;s hospital in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. India and Russia relations Karine Jean-Pierre said that India and Russia have had a long-standing friendly and strategic relationship. This relationship is not only based on economic and military cooperation, but there are also deep cultural and historical ties between the two countries. This closeness puts India in a special position, from which India can influence Putin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi&#39;s intervention On the second and last day of his Russia visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a bilateral meeting with President Putin. This was their first meeting in two years. During the meeting, Modi clearly expressed his concern over the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. “Take war, conflict or any terrorist incident: anyone who believes in humanity feels pain when people die, and especially when innocent children die. When we feel such pain, our hearts break,” he said. Expectations of the global south Prime Minister Modi also placed before Putin the expectations of the global south for peace and stability. He also reiterated that “no solution is possible on the battlefield”. This view stressed the need for a diplomatic and peaceful solution to end the war. Role of the international community Karine Jean-Pierre said, “We believe that all countries, including India, must support efforts to achieve a lasting and just peace in Ukraine. It is important that all our partners understand this.” She believes that India’s long-standing relationship with Russia gives it the ability to push Putin to end the war in Ukraine. Russian honor At the same time, President Vladimir Putin awarded Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Russia&#39;s highest civilian honor &#39;Order of St. Andrew the Apostle&#39;. This honor was given for Modi&#39;s &#39;exceptional&#39; contribution in promoting the strategic partnership between Russia and India. Given the depth of the relationship between India and Russia, it is clear that India has the ability to influence Putin. Prime Minister Modi&#39;s open dialogue with Putin and the important issues raised by him are proof that India can not only raise its voice effectively but also play an important role towards peace and stability on the global stage. With the US hoping that India will use its position to end the war in Ukraine, it will be important to see how this diplomatic effort progresses in the future. This role of India in international politics is not only a testament to its diplomatic capabilities but also reflects its commitment towards global peace and stability. Read more:- Zelensky upset with the meeting of Prime Minister Modi and President Putin. Leave a Reply