After the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Russia, America has also acknowledged the strength of Indian foreign policy. America has said that India can end the Ukraine-Russia conflict with the help of its old friendship with Russia. The US White House has made this comment. US President&#39;s press secretary Jean Pierre said while talking to the media on Tuesday (July 9, 2024), &quot;India is our strategic partner and we talk with it very openly on all issues, including its relationship with Russia. We have also discussed this matter earlier. We feel that it is important that all countries including India support efforts to achieve lasting peace in the matter of Ukraine.&quot; Further, regarding India&#39;s cooperation in this matter, he said, &quot;India&#39;s old relationship with Russia also gives it the ability to ask Russian President Putin to end the war.&quot; America said that the war was started by Russia and it will be ended by it. This comment of America comes after PM Modi raised the Ukraine-Russia conflict in talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. PM Modi had said in an official conversation with President Putin on Tuesday (July 9, 2024) that the dispute between the two countries is not going to be resolved on the battlefield. He had said that there cannot be talks amidst bombs, guns and firing. During this conversation, PM Modi had said that India is ready for every cooperation to restore peace. He had said that India itself is in favor of peace and the world community should know this. PM Modi had also said during this time that President Putin&#39;s talk about peace is making him hopeful. President Putin also praised PM Modi&#39;s peace efforts during this time. He also talked about the strong relations between India and Russia during this time. President Vladimir Putin gave PM Modi the highest honor of Russia. Great Dane, Chancellor @karlnehammer, for her heroic achievement. Another nation is giving more support than ever before, and the world is in a position to unite. 🇮🇳 🇦🇹 pic.twitter.com/ZTrhXeVUdQ — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 10, 2024 It is worth noting that PM Modi is on a three-day foreign tour (8-10 July). He reached Austria on Tuesday after completing his foreign tour in Russia. Here he was welcomed at the airport by the Austrian Foreign Minister. PM Modi has also met Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer. He will now join official talks with him.