Elections have not even been held in India yet and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started receiving post-election invitations from abroad. Just a few hours after talking to Russian President Vladimir Putin, PM Modi spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky over the phone. Let us tell you that Russia and Ukraine have been at war for the last 2 years and recently Putin had warned that if NATO lands in Ukraine, no one will be able to stop the Third World War from happening. Amidst this tension, PM Modi spoke to both the leaders. It is being told that both Putin and Zelensky have invited PM Modi to visit their respective countries after the elections. Along with this, both have also said that they see India as a country that establishes peace by making agreements. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier visited Russia in 2019. PM Modi getting the invitation also shows that other countries are also assuming that his return as Prime Minister for the third consecutive time is certain and the mandate is going to go in his favor. PM Modi talked to Volodymyr Zelensky about strengthening relations between the common people of Russia and Ukraine as well as ending the tension between Russia and Ukraine. He said that the war can be ended only through dialogue and diplomacy. PM Modi also met Zelensky on the sidelines of the G7 Summit in Hiroshima, Japan in May 2023. India had also sent humanitarian aid to Ukraine, for which Zelensky thanked PM Modi during the latest talks. President Putin invites PM Modi to Russia hours after Modi-Zelensky talk — WION (@WIONews) March 20, 2024 Ukraine and Russia see India as peacemaker@susanmtehrani joined by @siddhant for more insights Watch more on https://t.co/AXC5qRugeb pic.twitter.com/dh7NbihQRT Earlier, PM Modi had congratulated Putin over a phone call on his re-election as the President of Russia. During this, both agreed to strengthen India-Russia strategic relations. Putin has been re-elected as the President of Russia with 87.17% votes. Earlier, he has won the presidential election in 2000, 2004, 2012 and 2018. Western countries have termed this election as undemocratic. Ukraine has demanded the US Congress to unblock the $60 billion package, which is stuck in political tug-of-war.