- Hindi News - International - Prisoner Exchange Between US And Russia Today Prisoner exchange between Russia and Western countries: A total of 26 prisoners from 7 countries including America-Russia and Germany released, Turkey made the deal - Copy link Prisoner exchange has taken place between America-Russia and Western countries today. This deal of prisoner exchange has been done in Ankara, the capital of Turkey. Under the deal, 26 prisoners imprisoned in the jails of 7 countries including America, Russia and Germany were released. Out of these, 10 prisoners including 2 minors have been sent to Russia. At the same time, 13 prisoners have been sent to Germany and 3 prisoners to America. US President Joe Biden had already approved this deal. This is the third deal related to the exchange of prisoners between America and Russia in the last 3 years. Earlier, there was an exchange of prisoners between the two countries in April 2022 and December 2022. It is considered to be the biggest exchange since the Cold War. American journalist and Navy man released US media house WALL STREET JOURNAL (WSJ) journalist Ivan Gershkovich has been released by Russia today. Russia arrested Ivan in March last year on charges of spying for the US intelligence agency CIA. He was convicted on charges of espionage on 19 July last month. Ivan was then sentenced to 16 years in prison. Ivan was arrested from the eastern city of Yekaterinburg, 1600 km from the Russian capital Moscow. Apart from Ivan, 2 more American citizens have been released from Russia. These include Paul Whelan, who was a part of the US Navy, and radio journalist Alsou Kurmasheva. Paul Whelan was arrested by Russia from a hotel in Moscow in 2018 for spying. Radio journalist Alsou was arrested for spreading fake news about the Russian army. A total of 10 prisoners left for Russia. 10 Russian prisoners, including 2 minors, have been released in the exchange. Many of these people are connected to Russia&#39;s intelligence agency FSB. One of them is a Russian citizen named Vadim Krasikov, who was brought to Ankara from Germany&#39;s capital Berlin. Vadim had shot an enemy of Russia in Berlin in 2019. He was later arrested. Apart from this, 3 Russian prisoners lodged in US jails have also been released. Did Netanyahu get Haniyeh killed to save his chair: Threat of war increasing after Hamas chief&#39;s death, know everything in 6 questions and answers Voting begins to make Kamala Harris the presidential candidate: Support of 1976 delegates of the Democratic Party is necessary for victory Hamas chief Haniyeh killed in a bomb blast: Claim - Bomb was delivered to Tehran&#39;s guest house 2 months ago, detonated as soon as presence was confirmed Hamas military chief Mohammad Daif killed in Israeli attack: Political chief killed in Iran a day ago; Only Sinwar left in the leadership