&quot;Every time my phone rings, my heart sinks and I pick up the phone hoping that there is no bad news. This is the second time my husband has sent an SOS to the Indian government. Does the government not care about its citizens? When will the government save them?&quot; These questions are being asked by Ambika Tamang, a resident of Chibo-Purbang in Kalimpong district of West Bengal. For the last five months, Ambika&#39;s husband Urgyen Tamang is stuck in the Russian Army and is fighting a war against Ukraine. 45-year-old Ambika is a housewife and lives in Chibo-Purbang with her two daughters. The girls study in school. Ambika&#39;s husband is the sole breadwinner of the family. Ambika says, &quot;Our two daughters are scared that he (the girls&#39; father) is stuck abroad. They keep asking me when they will be able to meet their father but I have no answer.&quot; &#39;He doesn&#39;t want to fight&#39; Ambika told The Quint that Urgyen Tamang, 40, served in the Indian Army until 2018. He was then working as a security guard in a private company in Gujarat until last year. Ambika said she knew little about her husband going to Russia. &quot;He just told me that he wanted to go abroad to work and that an agent in Siliguri had charged him Rs 6 lakh to take him out of the country,&quot; she says. &quot;He came home from Gujarat once in December [2023] but hardly spent time with us as he was running around for his documents. He arranged the money demanded by the agent and then he told us he was going to Russia. He flew to Delhi and then to Russia on January 19 this year,&quot; Ambika says. Ambika said that Tamang had told her that the money he earns as a security guard and the pension he gets from the army are not enough for his family. He wants to earn as much money as possible for his daughters. Ambika Tamang Tamang, like many others from this area, had joined the Indian Army after the year 2000 under the government&#39;s Short Service Commission scheme. Under this scheme, eligible men and women could serve in the army for at least 10 years and they had the option of either leaving the job, joining permanently or extending the service period by four years. Ambika said that her husband had not applied to join the army permanently. Ambika says that after Tamang went to Russia, she spoke to him on video-call on March 22 and then Tamang told her that he would be on the war front the next day. He had said that he did not want to go to the war front and wanted to come back home. He has also appealed to the authorities to help him return to the country. Ambika Tamang last spoke to Tamang on May 12. Ambika says, &quot;These days he calls for very short periods. He calls only to tell that he is safe.&quot; Cheated by recruitment agents Tamang claimed in his first SOS message to the government that he was cheated by recruitment agents. On March 23, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista shared his message. Tamang alleged that around January, an agent from Siliguri (in West Bengal) sent him to Delhi where another agent met him and gave him a ticket and visa to Moscow. I reached Moscow in January, a Nepali/Gorkha agent received me and put me up in a hotel. The next day another agent from Tamil Nadu met me and kept me in a hotel for eight to nine days. I was then sent to an army camp and kept there for 17-18 days and asked to sign a bond. Urgyen Tamang alleged that he was taken to a &#39;jungle camp&#39; where he received ammunition training for about 10-12 days. In his video, Urgyen Tamang said, &quot;I was then told that I am being sent to the war front, I appeal to the Indian government to get me out of here.&quot; Tamang&#39;s wife contacted MP Raju Bista. He then told local media that he has contacted the concerned authorities, including the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Embassy in Russia, to help rescue Tamang. What did the Ministry of External Affairs say? Ambika said that in the first week of April, her husband called her and requested her to appeal to the authorities to rescue him. Ambika says, &quot;He wants to live with his daughters again.&quot; On March 20, he sent a message to his wife requesting the central government to intervene and save him. On behalf of the Indian government, Charanjit Singh, additional secretary, Eurasia Division, had then said that the government was pursuing his case. &quot;The Indian Embassy in Moscow has taken up the matter with the concerned Russian authorities to ensure his (Tamang&#39;s) early return,&quot; the additional secretary had said in an email to MP Raju Bista on April 12. Last week, Tamang sent another message as Indian authorities have so far been unable to rescue him from Russia. In a voice message sent to his wife, he said, &quot;I have requested my Russian friend to send this message. I am currently posted in the 2nd Battalion of the 144th Brigade of the Russian Army.&quot; The Ministry of External Affairs had earlier said that every matter brought to the attention of the Indian Embassy in Moscow was taken up with the Russian authorities as well as the Russian Embassy in Delhi. Meanwhile, the Ministry of External Affairs has not responded to The Quint&#39;s queries on their efforts to rescue Tamang. This story will be updated when a response is received. (Hello friends! Stay connected to our Telegram channel here)