Russian President Vladimir Putin has released jailed American journalist Ivan Gershkovich. 10 Russian prisoners have been released in the prisoner exchange between the US and Russia. The most prominent name among them is that of Vadim Krasikov. He is said to be the hitman of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Putin is eagerly waiting for Krasikov&#39;s return. He calls Krasikov a patriotic Russian. Why does Putin have this opinion about Krasikov? Russian intelligence agent Krasikov&#39;s name had surfaced in two murders. He was serving a sentence for one of those murders in Berlin. Georgian-born Chechen rebel Zelimkhan Khangoshvili was shot dead by a Russian man riding a bicycle in a park in Berlin in 2019. The attack was carried out in broad daylight with a silencer-mounted pistol. The killer was later identified as Vadim Krasikov. Krasikov threw his pistol near the German Parliament Reichstag. He was later arrested. He had entered Germany using fake documents. Vadim Krasikov is a Russian citizen associated with the Russian intelligence agency FSB. After this murder in Berlin, a major diplomatic dispute arose between Russia and Germany and two Russian diplomats were expelled from Berlin. Later, a German court convicted Krasikov of murder. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in this case. Vladimir Putin denied the allegations of the Russian government&#39;s involvement in this murder and called them baseless. However, in one of his interviews, Putin had called Krasikov a Russian &quot;patriot&quot; without naming him. In an interview on an American TV talk show, Russian President Vladimir Putin had said that Russia wants Krasikov&#39;s release in exchange for American journalist Ivan Gershkovich. Germany suspected Russia&#39;s involvement in the Berlin murder after looking at Vadim Krasikov&#39;s past life. Information was received from a website that he was also a suspect in a murder in Moscow in 2013. It is said that two years later, in 2015, the arrest warrant against him was withdrawn. Later, his new identity was revealed as Vadim Sokolov instead of Vadim Krasikov. The German court had said that such documents could only be provided by Russia, so Krasikov had the support of the Kremlin in the murder in Berlin. The court had said that Russian government officials had ordered the murder. However, Russia had denied the allegations of plotting the murder. It had described the court&#39;s decision against Krasikov as politically motivated. Vadim Krasikov had killed Chechen rebel commander Zelimkhan Khangoshvili. Khangoshvili had participated in Chechnya&#39;s struggle for separation from Russia for the first four years of the 21st century. Also read - Prisoner exchange between arch enemies Russia and America, Gershkovich returns to his country, Putin awaits &#39;hitman&#39; Track the latest news on NDTV.in and get news updates from across the country and around the world