Two years of Russia-Ukraine war: Has India&#39;s foreign policy... Ahead of the second anniversary of Russia&#39;s invasion of Ukraine, a group of European foreign ministers are in Delhi for the annual Raisina Dialogue. Is Ukraine at risk of permanently losing the land it has occupied to Russia? And has the Indian foreign policy needle moved at all since 2022? We bring you the picture that emerged at the Ministry of External Affairs&#39; annual Raisina Dialogue - where 15 of the 21 foreign ministers gathered were from Europe - and made a strong case for India to support Ukraine and reconsider its purchase of oil and arms from Russia. In an interview to German newspaper Handelsblatt this week, Mr Jaishankar had defended India&#39;s position, saying &quot;Russia has never harmed India&#39;s interests&quot;. Two years of the Ukraine war - it was originally expected to be much shorter - here are 5 things you need to know Two years after Russia announced its special operation in Ukraine - if by March 2022 Russia occupied about 20% of Ukrainian territory, by 2024 it still controls about 17% of it. It is estimated that by the end of the year Russia will have spent $132 billion and will lose more than $300 billion due to financial sanctions by the West. But its oil sales are almost back to pre-war levels thanks to countries like China, India and Brazil. Ukraine has borne the brunt of the war - thousands of people killed, more than 14 million displaced, 6 million of whom are now refugees living in 11 countries. Cities, infrastructure destroyed, and its weapons and military resources under constant pressure. According to Ukrainian Deputy FM- Ukraine has already lost $500 billion. Now it is applying for EU membership—NATO membership could get more complicated 2 years of war have shown many fault lines in the West as different countries debate war funding. The US, heading towards an uncertain election, is seeing opposition in Congress, European countries have seen a more unified voice, but many in Europe are not yet raising their defense budgets by the 2% required for Ukraine. One obvious result: Finland and Sweden have now joined NATO. There is no doubt that Israel&#39;s bombing of Gaza has created new controversies, and also exposed some of these countries&#39; doublespeak on civilian deaths. Similar competing unity in the Global South—which largely disapproves of Russia&#39;s actions, but does not agree with the unilateral sanctions imposed on Russia, or the narrative that holds Russia alone responsible. The final joint statement at the G20 summit in India last year did not criticize Russia in any way for the war. And despite Western discomfort, 5 new members joined BRICS this year – including the UAE, KSA, Iran, Egypt and Ethiopia.