Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left for Poland and Ukraine tour. Before his visit, PM Modi posted on X. He wrote, &#39;My visit to Poland is taking place at a time when we are completing 70 years of our diplomatic relations. Poland is a major economic partner in Central Europe. Our mutual commitment to democracy further strengthens our relations. I look forward to meeting my friends Prime Minister Donald Tusk and President Andrzej Duda to take this partnership forward. I will also interact with the people of the Indian community living in Poland.&#39; What did PM Modi say on the Ukraine tour PM Modi wrote, &#39;From Poland I will go to Ukraine. I will visit Ukraine at the invitation of President Vladimir Zelensky. This is the first visit of an Indian Prime Minister to Ukraine. I will discuss strengthening bilateral cooperation and a peaceful solution to the ongoing Ukraine conflict. As a friend and partner, we hope for the early return of peace and stability in the region.&#39; Also read: PM Modi on first official visit to Ukraine, fourth meeting with Zelensky in 4 years, know why this visit is special PM Modi said that I am confident that this visit will serve as a natural continuation of extensive contacts with both the countries and will help lay the foundation for stronger and more vibrant relations in the years to come. Know the schedule of PM Modi&#39;s visit Prime Minister Narendra Modi will first go to Poland where he will stay on 21 and 22 August. After this, he will visit Ukraine on 23 August. This is the first time that an Indian Prime Minister is going on a visit to Ukraine. Diplomatic relations between Kiev and New Delhi were established 30 years ago i.e. in 1994. PM Modi&#39;s visit is taking place at a time when the war between Ukraine and Russia has intensified. Visit to Poland after 45 years An Indian Prime Minister will visit Poland after 45 years. Before him, Morarji Desai visited Poland in 1979. This visit is taking place at a time when India-Poland are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Let us tell you that the number of Indian community in Poland is around 25,000, which includes about 5,000 students.