Russia, which has been fighting a war with Ukraine for nearly two years, has suffered a major setback in Mali. Mali&#39;s rebels have brutally killed 84 fighters of Russia&#39;s private army group. Along with Wagner fighters, 47 soldiers of the Mali army have also been killed. This clash between Wagner fighters and Mali&#39;s rebels took place on the Algerian border between July 25 and July 27. According to the AFP report, separatists led by Mali&#39;s barbaric ethnic group Tuareg said that they had an encounter with Wagner fighters and Malian soldiers in a military camp. Mali&#39;s separatist alliance Azawad (CSP-DPA) said that along with inflicting heavy damage to Wagner fighters, 30 fighters were airlifted to the city of Kidal. Some of them were dead and some were seriously injured. Burnt bodies found in armored vehicles The rebels said that they have also found some burnt bodies from inside armored vehicles and trucks. Mali&#39;s rebels claim that they have 7 fighters of the Wagner Group and the Mali government as hostages. They have also admitted that 9 of their rebels have been killed. This organization took responsibility for the attack Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), an organization associated with Al-Qaeda, has taken responsibility for the attack on the Wagner Group. They claim that this attack is the biggest blow to the Wagner Group in Africa so far. Wagner Army is active in Africa Let us tell you that the Wagner Group has also led many extensive and deadly military operations of the Russian government in Ukraine. However, later the then Wagner Chief rebelled against Russian President Vladimir Putin, which could not succeed. At present, this private army of Russia is active in Africa. The rebels have claimed to have seized 5 armored vehicles, five pickup trucks and many weapons after carrying out the attack. The Wagner Group says that the rebels benefited from the sand storm. Due to this storm, the Wagner fighters and the Mali army could not get air support.