Putin played such a trick that Western countries had to release eight spies; welcomed like heroes in Moscow Russia released 16 prisoners of Western countries. In return, Western countries released eight Russian spies. Russian President Vladimir Putin gave these prisoners a warm welcome in Moscow. He said that Russia has not forgotten you even for a minute. Russia is seeing this as a big success. AFP, Moscow. Under the historic prisoner exchange with Western countries, Russia was successful in getting its eight spies released. President Vladimir Putin welcomed the prisoners like heroes when they reached Moscow. Putin said that I want to congratulate all of you on returning to your motherland. He assured everyone that Russia has not forgotten them even for a minute. Also read: Israel reprimanded for lowering the flag of Turkey&#39;s embassy, said - this act will not be tolerated A total of 24 prisoners were released Putin has clearly given a message to his agents spread across the world that even if you are caught, the Kremlin is with you. A total of 24 prisoners were released on Thursday as part of an agreement with the West. Of these, 16 prisoners were from the West and eight from Russia. Let us tell you that this is the biggest exchange of prisoners since the Cold War. Russia released American journalist Russia has released American journalists Ivan Gershkovich and Alsou Kurmasheva and former Marine Paul Whelan. In return, Russia released the largest number of its alleged spies at once in more than a decade. Vadim Krasikov of the FSB security service is also among the prisoners released. Agents and hackers returned to Russia Those returning to Russia include two secret agents living on fake documents in Slovenia, a notorious hacker and an alleged Russian colonel working as a Brazilian researcher in Norway. Getting Krasikov released is a big success Getting Krasikov released is Putin&#39;s biggest success. Krasikov was an FSB officer. He was arrested in Germany in 2019 for the murder of a former Chechen separatist. Putin had long been pressuring to include Krasikov in the prisoner swap deal. But Germany was opposed to it. Loyalty will increase among spies Independent political analyst and former Kremlin speechwriter Abbas Gallyamov said that this agreement will increase loyalty among other spies and killers. Putin can rely on them to work with more dedication. Russia says that it is committed to freeing its citizens wrongly caught in Western countries. Long history of swap Tatiana Stanovaya, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center, said that over the past two years Russia has been openly detaining citizens of Western countries for a possible swap, as talks with the West stalled amid the Ukraine attack. There has been a long history of swaps between Russia and the West. This also included the swap of American basketball star Brittney Griner with Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout in 2022. Russia is getting eight fools In an interview with Russia&#39;s independent TV Rain, political analyst Ekaterina Shulman said that Russia can see this exchange as a great success and a wonderful victory. But the reality is much smaller than this. Russia is getting eight losers who could not do their job and got caught. Also read: Hamas chief Ismail Haniya buried in Doha, demand for revenge raised in Qatar for the first time