India and Japan will jointly stop China&#39;s path, what is the planning, know - India ... New Delhi: The third India-Japan 2 + 2 dialogue (participation of defense and foreign ministers) was held in New Delhi in the third week of August. The joint statement said that the two countries reaffirmed their commitment to maintaining and strengthening the international order based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity, and peaceful resolution of disputes without resorting to the use or threat of force. Also stressed the need for all countries to avoid any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo. China, which is a neighbor of both countries, is a growing threat as it seeks to occupy the territories of both countries as well as other countries using fraudulent methods. Thus cooperation between India and Japan is growing. A major area of concern is the Indo-Pacific. In the 2 + 2, other global issues including the Russia-Ukraine conflict were discussed, apart from China&#39;s growing aggression in the South and East China Sea. Japan has imposed sanctions on Russia. The Chinese Global Times tweeted on the 2+2 meeting, &quot;India and Japan have been deepening their ties in recent years, focusing on aligning their efforts to balance China&#39;s influence and enhance their respective roles in the Asia-Pacific region.&quot; Before the last 2+2 meeting in September 2022, the Global Times had said that closer ties between Japan and India on defense, which clearly target China, will significantly increase uncertainties and concerns over security in the region. China knows it is the common enemy. Japan changed its constitution Japan changed its constitution in 2014, allowing it to exercise its right to collective self-defense. In 2022, it passed laws enabling its military forces to develop counter-attack capabilities. This meant increasing defense spending and enhancing military capabilities, primarily aimed at deterring the Chinese threat, which China objected to. PM Modi will visit Tokyo The joint statement also noted the need to revise and update the Joint Declaration on Security Cooperation signed in October 2008. It is expected to be signed when Prime Minister Modi visits Tokyo later this year. Apparently, the two countries have realized that they need greater coordination to counter threats from China. Other discussions also included sharing of naval radar equipment technology and the sale of the Unified Complex Radio Antenna (UNICORN), the latest technology communication antenna for naval ships. Like the US, Japan is also considering a deal to enable maintenance and repair of naval ships in Indian ports. As bilateral relations between the two countries are growing, the importance of defense is increasing. Rajnath Singh remarked that defense has emerged as an important pillar in India-Japan relations and they intend to counter China. Japanese Air Force is participating in Tarang Shakti exercise The Japanese Air Force is participating in the ongoing Tarang Shakti exercise in India, which is now in its second phase. Last year, joint exercises of the three armies were conducted, which both countries have decided to continue on a regular basis. Both countries are also members of the Quad and contribute to reducing Chinese influence in Southeast Asia. At the same time, India is strengthening its armed forces to prevent Chinese aggressive actions, it also needs to increase its diplomatic and economic strength as an additional deterrent. The stronger the anti-China diplomatic group, the better. There is no better ally for India in Asia than Japan, a country with a strong economy and growing military power. Dispute between China and Japan Japan has a dispute with China over the uninhabited Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. Located just 170 kilometers from Taiwan, these islands are of great strategic importance. If Japan loses them, China can benefit greatly, including stopping Japanese trade. China claims that these islands belong to Taiwan and therefore belong to it. Last week, Japan reported that a Chinese survey vessel had briefly entered its territorial waters. According to the information, this is the tenth time in the last one year that such an incident has happened. In August 2022, when China conducted exercises off the coast of Taiwan after US Parliament Speaker Nancy Pelosi&#39;s visit to Taipei, five of its missiles fell into Japan&#39;s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Japan protested to China over this. In response, the Chinese spokesperson said, &#39;China and Japan have not demarcated the sea in the respective waters, so there is no such thing as China&#39;s military action or entry into Japan&#39;s EEZ. Policy of challenging the status quo China is pursuing a similar policy of challenging the status quo against Japan, the Philippines and India. Whether it is on land or at sea, its actions are causing controversy. Japan faces an additional threat from China&#39;s nuclear-powered ally North Korea. Thus, the three, India, Japan and the Philippines, are getting closer. Japan and the Philippines signed a defense agreement in July this year, promoting defense cooperation, including joint exercises. Japanese Foreign Minister Yoko Kamikawa said, &quot;A free and open international system based on the rule of law is the foundation of regional peace and prosperity.&quot; The US, which guarantees security for the Philippines and Japan, issued the warning after the collision of China-Philippines boats in the South China Sea, which involved the coast guards of both countries. The statement said, &quot;The US reaffirms that Article IV of the 1951 US-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty extends to armed attacks on armed forces, public vessels or aircraft of the Philippines anywhere in the South China Sea.&quot; India and the Philippines also have close defence cooperation. Philippines Ambassador to India Josel Francisco Ignacio said in a recent interview that buying defence equipment from India is just one aspect of a larger defence relationship. Defence-to-defence and military-to-military dialogue, exchange of views on issues of common concern also play an important role in this relationship. Philippines cadets are being trained in Indian academies. It has also bought Brahmos missiles from India. Also read- What is the Philadelphia Corridor, about which Benjamin Netanyahu is worried?