Editorial: Attacks continue in Russia-Ukraine war, ahead of NATO summit ... Whenever governments change, the new governments try to show that whatever they do is completely new, that is right, before them either nothing happened or whatever was happening was completely wrong and only wrong and was not in the interest of the country at all! Often the people sitting in those governments keep making such announcements which make the country feel that they are the biggest patriots, they can never be wrong, they are not only great but also the greatest! While making such announcements or preaching, they do not feel the need to think whether what they are saying is possible or not. The word rhetoric is very inadequate, rather even less, for this feat of theirs. Although all the politicians do this, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the master of all the masters in this matter. Recently he told his ministers that they will have to work 24 hours a day for 365 days. Since the Prime Minister has said it, it has to be taken seriously. The first question is, is it possible to work 24 hours a day for 365 days continuously? Are his ministers great men, super computers or mythical characters from the ancient era that seem unbelievable? Has a chip been implanted in the bodies of the ministers through computer technology? Or is Modiji such a great magician that he will not let his ministers sleep, nor let them feel hungry or thirsty, nor let them get tired, and will also free them from some essential daily tasks? Has he made some such arrangement that while working 24 hours, for example, while clearing files, or while holding meetings, meeting the public, while giving speeches, all these essential daily tasks will be completed automatically? This is neither a joke nor an exaggeration. After all, the greatest, never before, never before, the best of the best, patriotic Prime Minister has formally told the ministers in his full consciousness without consuming any intoxicants, not only told, but also got it publicized that they have to work 24 hours a day for 365 days. If this does not seem practical, then what will happen is that the minister&#39;s sleeping, doing his daily chores, drinking water, having tea-breakfast, eating food, spending time with family members, attending family functions, laughing and joking with friends, loving someone, changing clothes several times a day, combing hair, wearing shoes and socks, watching movies, etc., all the personal and human needs which can be described and which cannot be described in public interest, will be declared as works done for the benefit of the country and it will be mandatory for all citizens to believe that they are in the interest of the country! Those suffering from diseases like democracy, equality, human rights, freedom of expression etc., who will not believe in this, will be dealt with in a police manner. If you dismiss this as nonsense, then it will be better that &#39;Oaths, promises, love, loyalty, all are just talks, what&#39;s the use of talks! Here, no one is mad about the public, he is a minister, what about the minister? &#39;Shyam Bohra, Bawdiyakalan, Bhopal Click to like Facebook page - Click to follow on Twitter page -