The visit of Ukraine&#39;s Deputy Foreign Minister Emina Zhaparova to India reflects Kyiv&#39;s desire to build strong ties with New Delhi and seek its help in resolving the dispute. This is the first visit to India by a senior government official from the eastern European country after Russia&#39;s attack on Ukraine. Earlier, Ukraine had publicly expressed its displeasure at India&#39;s stance on the war. In August last year, Ukraine&#39;s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba had attacked India&#39;s energy purchases from Russia, saying it involved &quot;Ukrainian blood&quot;. Kyiv had hoped for &quot;more practical support&quot; from New Delhi. But Ms Zhaparova took a more pragmatic view, saying Ukraine does not want to dictate India&#39;s energy and economic relations with other countries, but her country is fighting for its survival. The war has put India in a difficult position. Russia is a historical partner with whom India has deep defence ties. In such a situation, there is no easy and immediate option available for India. And, Russia’s aggression is a blatant violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and international law. The war has also complicated India’s relations with its Western partners as transatlantic powers led by the United States have waged an economic war against Russia. India and most of the global south have stayed away. India has tried to navigate this maze of geopolitics through pragmatism. It has refused to condemn Russia, maintained defence and trade ties, expressed its discomfort with the war and called for respect for the territorial integrity of all countries. But as the war drags on, this balancing act could be interpreted as inaction. India is the chair of the G-20 and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. It will be pressured to do more to show global leadership and help end the war. The conflict has shocked not just Europe but the entire world and there is a growing consensus among the countries of the Global South that this hostility must end as soon as possible. China and Brazil have sensed the urgency and have indicated their willingness to play a major role in peace-making. India should not hesitate either. New Delhi has good relations with Moscow and Ms Zhaparova’s visit shows that Kyiv is also looking to India to play a major role in peace-making. India’s policy towards the conflict lies in its strategic neutrality. But neutrality does not mean that it should do nothing and wait for the conflict to run its course. It should empathise more strongly with the victims, raise the voices and interests of the countries of the Global South and call for respect for the sovereignty of all countries and international laws. It should also insist on a practical and lasting solution to the conflict.