Russia-Ukraine war: Those NATO weapons which Russia turned into rubble ... Russia-Ukraine war: Those NATO weapons which Russia turned into rubble, tanks, artillery systems and armored vehicles could not survive in real war By Shivendra Kumar Rai | Published: August 31, 2024 03:10 PM2024-08-31T15:10:31+5:302024-08-31T15:12:34+5:30 Russia-Ukraine war: It has been more than 900 days since the war between Russia and Ukraine started. Russia also has the most advanced weapons of NATO in the war which are considered a symbol of Western military power. Russia-Ukraine war: It has been more than 900 days since the war between Russia and Ukraine started. So far, weapons worth billions have been destroyed in this war. Ukraine has the support of America and Western countries in this war. Ukraine has also received ammunition, money and weapons from these countries. In the war against Russia, NATO&#39;s state-of-the-art weapons are also there which are considered a symbol of Western military power. But this war has also broken many assumptions. The harsh realities of modern warfare have come to the fore from the war. Weapons made with NATO&#39;s cutting-edge technology have also had to be destroyed on the battlefield. Many such weapons which NATO countries were proud of were destroyed with precision by Russian forces. The destruction of these high-profile Western weapons on the battlefield shows how fierce the war is. Also, questions have been raised on the strength of these systems in real war. Here we are telling you about such famous weapons which have been destroyed by the Russian army. 1- Challenger 2 (GB)- Challenger 2 is a tank of Britain. It is known as the Main Battle Tank (MBT). No one had seen the wreckage of Challenger 2 before this war, but it lost its impeccable record when deployed in Ukraine. Russia destroyed one of these tanks in the Kursk region in mid-August. 2- Abrams (US)- Another symbol of Western military might, the American M1 Abrams suffered its first defeat in the Kursk region last week. Several reports say that at least 20 of the 31 Abrams tanks supplied to Ukraine have been destroyed. 3- HIMARS Rocket Artillery (US)- Known for its firepower, the HIMARS rocket artillery system has been a key weapon for Ukrainian forces. At least three of these systems were destroyed during the Kursk offensive. 4- Stryker (CA)- Canadian-made Stryker APC-IFV armored vehicles have been deployed extensively in the region. About a dozen of these vehicles have been destroyed by the Russian Air Force, Lancet drones and Naval Infantry of the Black Sea Fleet. Apart from this, two Stryker vehicles were also captured by the Russian army. 5- Marder (DE)- Germany&#39;s Marder &quot;Schützenpanzer&quot; is an armored vehicle that moves with infantry. At least three Marders have been destroyed by the Russian army in the ongoing conflict. 6- Bradley (US)- The American Bradley IFV is a key vehicle of NATO armored divisions. Eight of these vehicles were destroyed in a single day on August 12 when Ukraine tried to enter the Kursk region. After such destruction of these vehicles, questions have arisen whether victory can be achieved on the basis of these weapons in a real war or not.