Ukrainian army is unable to stand before Russia, lost second big city - Hindustan Ukrainian army is unable to stand before Russia, lost second big city; Putin overjoyed with victory Ukraine Russia War Updates: Russian forces are destroying Ukrainian cities with explosive attacks and have also captured nine areas of Kharkiv, the second largest city in Ukraine. Ukraine Russia War Updates: The ongoing war between Ukraine and Russia has become dangerous. It is reported that the Ukrainian army is lagging behind in the war due to lack of weapons and falling morale. On the other hand, Russian forces are destroying Ukrainian cities with explosive attacks and have also captured nine areas of Kharkiv, the second largest city in Ukraine. The Russian army has come deep into Kharkiv and is continuously moving forward. After this war started in February 2022, Ukraine had regained Kharkiv, now Russia has once again captured Kharkiv. Vladimir Putin is overjoyed with this victory of his army. It is being told that the supply of weapons from America and Western countries has slowed down or stopped. This has also lowered the morale of the Ukrainian army and due to lack of weapons, they are unable to stand against the Russian army. Russia has said that its forces have entered the north-eastern border town of Vovchansk near Kharkiv, Ukraine&#39;s second largest city. The Russian army has come two kilometers inside Kharkiv. Ukrainian army protecting people from Russian attack On one hand, the Russian army has captured many areas of Kharkiv. On the other hand, the Ukrainian army is engaged in taking people to safe places. According to the report, Ukrainian military officials are going door to door in the city and appealing to the people to go to safe places. The Russian army is engaged in destroying cities under its old policy in the war that started after February 2022. Russian planes are being seen over the city throughout the day. However, amid Russia&#39;s lead, Ukrainian officials are expressing hope that soon the Russian army will be defeated and the situation in the city will be restored. Ukraine in worry Russia has intensified its attacks on Kharkiv after cross-border infiltration last Friday. This is considered a major victory for Russia since the invasion of Ukraine began in February 2022, Russia has captured at least nine villages and settlements in the ground attack. Thousands of people have fled their place. On the other hand, Ukrainian commanders are concerned that if Russian troops come within artillery range of the city, there could be a big catastrophe. The Ukrainian army has claimed that Russia has deployed its five major battalions in its latest attack and admitted that Moscow&#39;s troops have had some successes in Kharkiv.