A new crisis has arisen in Ukraine, which is embroiled in a war with Russia, why beautiful women have to handle the steering of trucks. A new crisis is deepening in Ukraine due to the shortage of men. The situation has become such that beautiful women have to do jobs like truck driver, factory manager and security guard. A new crisis has arisen in Ukraine, which is embroiled in a war against Russia. After thousands of Ukrainians were killed, the Zelensky government has called upon men to enlist in large numbers. This has started affecting jobs inside Ukraine. The situation has become such that due to the shortage of men, beautiful women in Ukraine have to do jobs like truck driver, factory manager and security guard. It has been more than two years since the war between Russia and Ukraine and millions of soldiers and innocent people have been killed in this war. Russia, which is engaged in capturing the small country Ukraine, has failed so far. America and Western countries are continuously helping Ukraine. However, Russia has not yet given up its intention. Due to the large number of soldiers being killed, there has been a crisis of men in Ukraine. War Due to the war in Ukraine, women had to work in professions traditionally considered &#39;for men&#39;. Recruitment of people in the Ukrainian army continues. In such a situation, women are doing jobs like truck driver, factory manager and security guard. According to BBC Urdu report, a Ukrainian woman named Lilia Shulha Silpo drives a truck for a supermarket store. Although she says that this was her dream for years, but at that time her children were very young and her husband was also against such a job. Now they are divorced and her mother helps her in taking care of the children. Women driving trucks in Ukraine Before Russia&#39;s large-scale invasion of Ukraine, Lelia worked as a clerk in a warehouse and drove a taxi in Syria. She says that she always had a passion for driving big vehicles, so when she got a chance to drive a truck, she did not miss the opportunity. She says that when she passed the truck driver&#39;s test last year, she came to know that her grandmother also had the same dream. Lelia says, &#39;My mother told me that you are also fulfilling your grandmother&#39;s dream.&#39; Lelia says that the best part of her job is that she gets a chance to travel a lot, where she is very happy to see the views of nature. Lelia further says, &#39;People are often surprised to see me getting off the truck. People also often take my pictures on the road. But I do not care.&#39; Why has the crisis of men deepened in Ukraine? It has been two and a half years since the Russian invasion of Ukraine and male-dominated industries have started facing a shortage of workers. At the beginning of the war, thousands of people voluntarily joined the army. Now the Ukrainian government has declared the mandatory recruitment of youth for the recruitment of soldiers. In May this year, Ukraine implemented a new military recruitment law to increase new recruitments and redeploy youth for the war against Russia. Even before the change in the law, it was common for men to be given military recruitment letters while walking on the streets or to be given such letters regularly at checkpoints.