Ukraine denounces that Russia controls Donetsk, Luhansk and Mariupol ... According to the last part of the high command of the Ukrainian army, the main Russian military efforts are now focused on preparing an offensive to establish full control over the Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Lugansk in the east of the country and the region of Mariupol in the south. This report, released on the 42nd day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, indicates that Russian troops continue their offensive towards Izyum, a city located on the Donetsk River in the Kharkov province, as well as towards Sloviansk and Barvinsk in the same province, which analysts say are key cities in the Russian offensive towards the self-proclaimed republics of eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Lugansk. “In the Donetsk leadership, the enemy is trying to improve the tactical positions of its units and continues to conduct assault operations in some areas,” the party says. According to Ukraine, the Ukrainian high command also refers to the situation in the besieged city of Mariupol, which is a strategic southern port on the coast of the heavily bombarded Sea of Azov and where more than 150,000 people live without basic services. “Attempts to assault Mariupol do not stop. The city&#39;s defenders maintained a heroic defense for more than forty days, holding back the overwhelming forces of the Russian invaders,” says the Ukrainian high command. The Russian military on Tuesday announced the final offensive for the seizure of the port city after the deadline expired for Ukrainian forces to lay down their arms and leave the city in the direction of Kiev-controlled territory. The battle for Mariupol continues The latest analysis by the Institute for the Study of War says that Russians continue to hit the city of Mariupol using artillery and air force and that “Ukrainian forces are holding organized resistance in parts of the city.” According to the analysis of this American institute, the Russian army continued to position itself to continue its offensive in eastern and southern Ukraine, abandoning the attack on Kiev and “redistributing some of the combat forces withdrawn from Belarus to Russia.” “But it is likely, according to your analysis, that the Russian units withdrawn from Kiev will not regain combat effectiveness for some time,” he says. “Russian offensive operations southeast of Izyum towards Slovyansk continued on a small scale and made limited progress. Russia has not yet tried to group large concentrations of forces on this axis, but continues to send tactical groups of individual battalions to advance on their own,” according to the analysis of this institute. (With information from EFE) Read on: