Vladimir Putin reached Mongolia amid fears of arrest, grand welcome, Ukraine flares up Russian President Vladimir Putin has reached Mongolia amid the Ukraine war. Putin was given a grand welcome amid fears of an arrest warrant. Russian President Vladimir Putin has reached Mongolia amid the Ukraine war. This is the first time Putin is visiting a member country of the International Criminal Court (ICC) since the war began in February 2022. The ICC has issued an arrest warrant against Putin last year. Putin&#39;s visit to Mongolia has once again raised demands for his arrest. However, the Kremlin has ruled out the possibility of Putin&#39;s arrest and said that it is fully confident about Putin&#39;s visit. Meanwhile, Ukraine is furious after seeing Putin&#39;s grand welcome in Mongolia. It accused Mongolia of promoting Putin&#39;s genocide in Ukraine. Vladimir Putin is scheduled to attend an event on Tuesday to mark the anniversary of the joint victory of Soviet and Mongolian troops in 1939 over the Japanese army. During this official visit, Putin will also meet Mongolian leader Ukhnaa Khurelsukh. This is Putin&#39;s first visit to an ICC member country after the arrest warrant was issued by the ICC about 18 months ago. Mongolia is a member of the ICC and this court has issued an arrest warrant against Putin. The ICC had issued an arrest warrant against Putin for suspected war crimes in Ukraine. The demand for Putin&#39;s arrest arose again. Ukraine has demanded that Putin be arrested from Mongolia and handed over to the court in The Hague. A spokesperson of Putin had said last week that the Kremlin (the office of the President of Russia) has no concern about Putin&#39;s visit to Mongolia. According to the rules of this court, if the person against whom an arrest warrant has been issued sets foot in any ICC member country, then it is the responsibility of that country to arrest him. But the court does not have an enforcement mechanism to implement its orders. Before Putin&#39;s arrival in Mongolia, a protest was also held in the capital Ulaanbaatar on Monday afternoon. The protesters demanded that Putin be thrown out of here. Relations between Mongolia and Russia Mongolia is a sparsely populated country sandwiched between Russia and China and is heavily dependent on Russia for fuel and electricity and on China for investment in its mining industry. Putin was given a grand welcome when he arrived in Ulaanbaatar earlier Monday night. The capital Ulaanbaatar was decorated with Mongolian and Russian flags on Tuesday for Putin&#39;s first visit to the country in five years. Ukraine enraged over Mongolia Welcoming Putin on Mongolian soil is seen as a statement against Kiev, the West and groups allied to it. Ukraine has reacted with anger to Putin&#39;s visit and accused Mongolia of covering up Putin&#39;s &quot;war crimes&quot;.