Joint Report: Impact of Ukraine War on Various Sectors/International Concerns ... The VIF Young Scholars Forum discussed &#39;Impact of Ukraine War on Various Sectors/International Concerns&#39; in its weekly meeting on 08 April 2022. These scholars discussed the impacts and responses of the Ukraine war related to their assigned field of study. Several key points were raised in this discussion, which are as follows: The Russia-Ukraine war has disrupted global supply chains along with energy and commodity markets. The shocks generated by the war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia are disrupting the supply of commodities, increasing financial stress, creating inflationary pressures, and decelerating global growth. Although the direct role of Russia and Ukraine within the global economy is quite small, both states have a significant impact on the global economy. This is magnified through their role as major suppliers in several commodity markets. Russia and Ukraine together account for approximately 30 per cent of global wheat exports, 20 per cent of corn and mineral fertilizer and natural gas exports, and 11 per cent of oil exports. Additionally, many supply chains around the world are dependent on exports of metals from Russia and Ukraine. Both states are also sources of inert gases such as argon and neon, primarily used in the production of semiconductors. As a result, the war is also having a direct impact on food prices, which were already high due to the COVID-19 pandemic and have reached their highest level in more than a decade. Various wheat importing countries, especially in West Asia and Africa, have suffered severely due to this supply chain disruption. The rising trend in commodity prices since the outbreak of the war, combined with the growing prospects of a deep recession in Russia, could, in the long run, reduce global GDP growth by more than one percentage point in the first year. This would inadvertently increase global consumer price inflation by about 2.5 percentage points. Global manufacturing has also been hit by a slowdown as supply shortages and already high costs are increasing after factories were attacked. Additionally, the recent COVID-19 induced lockdown in China has exacerbated these supply shortages and led to a decline in manufacturing activity. It is important to note that the crisis is also contributing to a continued reassessment of the structure of the global economy and concerns about self-sufficiency and resilience. The corona pandemic has already exposed the dark side of offshore supply chains and the current shocks are reorienting them towards greater resilience. In the long term, the war will force Europe to diversify its energy imports and take steps towards becoming economically independent from Russia. The current war will thus fundamentally affect the structure of energy markets. It will also lead to a possible fragmentation of global payment systems and a reconsideration of the currency structure of foreign exchange reserves. As the war in Ukraine expands into new areas, the far-reaching impact on the intricately interconnected and relatively fragile global economy will have to be carefully monitored and assessed. The impact of this crisis has been persistent and widespread across the world. However, its adverse effects on the US and Europe are unparalleled. Shared security concerns have strengthened both US-EU relations and NATO, giving a boost to the transatlantic alliance. However, despite convergence in response to unprecedented sanctions imposed against Russia and pressure on China, there have been several challenges in the effort to achieve the desired strategic outcome. A major challenge has been the rising cost of energy in Russia while approving its major energy suppliers. The civil aviation sector and airline companies have suffered from the massive sanctions imposed against Russian airlines. The US has seen a surge in interest rates along with the highest inflation in the last 40 years, leading to a macroeconomic crisis, especially shortages of groceries. They have also suffered due to disruption in the management of the supply chain of goods, which has put people&#39;s food and energy needs at risk. The result of all this has been that at the international level, the US has clearly lost its image as a global policeman. The Biden administration made it abundantly clear that it would not send US troops to Ukrainian soil despite the largest mobilisation in Europe in nearly a decade. European countries are caught between the US and Russia. The exodus of refugees into Ukraine’s neighbouring countries (Romania, Hungary and Poland) has become a major issue of their immediate concern. Regarding China’s position in the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, some analysts are unclear on whose side China stands while some analysts see Beijing’s policy as a “clear dual strategy of not opposing Russia and not abandoning Ukraine”. There is clearly no coherence in the narratives of Western and Chinese media in this regard. For example, Western-aligned media report that Washington claims Beijing has “positively responded” to Moscow’s requests for military assistance while Chinese media is busy reporting promoting “conspiracy theories about US biological weapons in Ukraine”. With regard to China’s policy towards Russia, analysts believe that there are two reasons why Beijing’s policy position has not changed much despite numerous requests that it “comprehensively overhaul its policy towards Russia and recalibrate its relations with Moscow.” First, they say, abandoning Russia “offers no solution or mitigation to the most significant external national security challenge posed by China,” which, as we all know, remains a challenge for the United States. The second reason is domestic. It is just that the joint statement issued by Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin on February 4, 2022, in which the two leaders pledged mutual cooperation. Therefore, analysts assess that such a quick change in policy direction “will inevitably raise questions about Xi Jinping’s decision-making in the first place.” This is especially so when Xi Jinping is hoping to consolidate his position for a third term at the upcoming 20th Party Congress of the Chinese Communist Party. Another thing is that Moscow&#39;s latest invasion of Ukraine has not divided the Western countries as it did during the Russian occupation of a region of Ukraine in 2014. However, the current invasion has created a united Western front against Moscow. Therefore, the consolidation of transatlantic relations is a major concern for China in the long run, as after Russia, Western countries may impose unified sanctions on China. China may also face various economic threats due to its BRI routes passing through Russia and Ukraine. Moreover, the instability in Ukraine may adversely impact the &quot;chip production&quot; prospects of Chinese companies as &quot;Ukraine provides 70 per cent of the world&#39;s neon gas.&quot; It is a vital component for the production of semiconductors. Any disruption in the supply chain will adversely impact Beijing&#39;s chip industry. Central Asia is Russia&#39;s sphere of influence, and Moscow is also the security provider in the region. Moreover, Central Asian economies are highly dependent on remittances from the Russian Federation. Against this backdrop, the Russia-Ukraine conflict is a serious ramification for Central Asian countries. Western sanctions have resulted in a significant drop in the value of the Russian ruble, from which Central Asia has suffered a lot. Their economies are so interlinked with Russia that when the ruble falls in value, their national currencies also fall with it, and hence they have suffered severely. Kazakhstan&#39;s national currency tenge has fallen by 20 per cent, leading to a higher cost of imports and higher risks of inflation and interest rates. The situation of Central Asian migrant workers is the most serious economic challenge that the region now faces. Currently, about 7.8 million Central Asian workers are employed in Russia. These remittances account for nearly a third of Tajikistan&#39;s total GDP and more than a quarter of Kyrgyzstan&#39;s total GDP. Similarly, remittances contribute to about 12 per cent of Uzbekistan&#39;s economic output. Now, the economic sanctions imposed on Russia have resulted in a significant drop in remittances from these countries. Food prices have also shot up due to the ban on grain exports from Russia. Kazakhstan is also dependent on Russian ports for its oil and gas exports. In view of the sanctions, discussions are now being held to open alternative logistics routes with Azerbaijan. In the West Asian and North African region (WANA), the US struggled to garner the support of its key allies in the context of economic sanctions and diplomatic approaches during the early stages of the conflict. For the WANA countries, Russia&#39;s moves to justify external intervention in Ukraine are reminiscent of the US script it has been using to justify its interference in the world. Russia has similarly put forth a narrative to justify its ‘humanitarian intervention’ to protect its ethnic Russians from the so-called ‘genocide’ in Ukraine; supporting separatists; recognising the separatist republics; spreading lies about Ukraine’s nuclear weapons build-up, and effecting regime change by ousting President Volodymyr Zelensky. Over the years, Russia has emerged as a common extra-regional player enjoying security and strategic understandings with all major powers. The Ukraine crisis has forced these countries to choose sides between their historic partnership with the US and their growing economic-political ties with Russia. Strategic fencing between the West and China, and the West and Russia is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. Most of the West Asian countries that voted in favour of ending the military aggression at the UNGA, however, maintain warm relations with Russia. The foreign policy of West Asian countries indicates that it does not support Russia&#39;s military aggression in Ukraine, which could adversely affect regional security but the countries also do not want to disrupt their relations with Moscow. The African position is divided in this time of crisis arising out of the Russia-Ukraine war. While the African Union condemned the Russian action, only 27 African countries voted in favor of the resolution against Russia in the United Nations General Assembly. Ghana, Kenya and Gabon, all three non-permanent African members of the Security Council, voted in favor of the draft resolution. Despite this, the refusal of 24 out of a total of 55 African countries to condemn the Russian action means that Russia&#39;s stature and influence is growing in Africa. And Eritrea has become the only African country to formally support Russia. With historical ties with the Soviet Union, many African countries currently depend on Russia as a major arms supplier. Countries like Ethiopia and Uganda are heavily dependent on Russia to end their ongoing civil war. Apart from arms imports, African countries have also contracted with the Wagner Group for mercenaries. Allegations of racism and prejudice against Ukrainian soldiers have greatly reduced African sympathies towards Ukraine. Despite being geographically far from the Russia-Ukraine region, the spillover effects of the conflict and the resulting economic sanctions are of great concern to the African continent. The impact of the price rise on goods and services depends on whether a country is a net exporter or importer of oil and gas. Oil producing countries like Nigeria, Angola, Libya, Algeria etc. are set to take advantage of this situation, while most African countries do not produce oil. Hence, they will be harmed by the rise in the price of crude oil globally. Banning deals with the Russian government or its businesses will have an adverse effect on African states that depend on Russia for military and civilian gear. The war will certainly affect food security across the continent as both Russia and Ukraine are important suppliers of wheat and fertilizer to Africa. There are many energy projects in the pipeline and the current crisis may delay the implementation of these projects or even abandon them altogether, raising serious concerns about the continent’s energy needs and related security. There is also the possibility that Russia’s isolation from the rest of the world may in fact bring it closer to African countries in the long run. The crisis in Ukraine is an unsavoury development in the Indo-Pacific region. The region was still recovering from the shock of the COVID-19 pandemic, with domestic economies suffering severely. The first set of reactions to the war in Ukraine was to condemn the Russian action and call for an end to the violence. The rest of the countries in the Indo-Pacific region, barring India and China, voted in favour of the UN resolution against Russia. However, this should not be misinterpreted as outright support for the West/Ukraine or NATO, rather those countries have interpreted their position or vote based on their foreign policy principle while doing so, namely respect for the UN Charter and non-violation of territorial sovereignty. And some countries have supported the resolution fearing that China might invade Taiwan on the same lines. The voting pattern in the UNHRC has been very different, with more countries abstaining and fewer countries voting for the resolution to oust Russia. Southeast Asia and South Korea are extremely concerned about their economies and the serious impact of rising inflation. There is also a new debate about increasing self-defense capabilities along with the US commitment to the Indo-Pacific. Japan and South Korea have also started a debate about arming themselves with nuclear capabilities. The current Ukraine crisis poses significant challenges to the South Asian neighbourhood, though not directly, but indirectly. South Asia has given mixed reactions to the UNGA resolution decriing Russia&#39;s aggression against Ukraine. Afghanistan, Maldives, Nepal and Bhutan have supported the resolution; while India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh were absent during the voting. It is important to note here that Myanmar&#39;s position in support of the resolution is due to the position of the previous National League of Democracy-appointed candidate. Myanmar and Russia have close diplomatic and military ties (Tom Andrews, UN report). However, the current sanctions may affect its rule - especially by disrupting Russian arms sales and international banking transactions. However, while Western nations were quick to impose sanctions on Russia and received support for it; similar action was not taken against Myanmar. The answer may lie in the factors of each country&#39;s respective geostrategic importance. For example, Ukraine-EU trade is around 43 billion euros (2019), but Myanmar-EU trade is only 3.1 billion euros (2020). The Ukraine crisis will have a bad impact on the Pakistani economy. Pakistan&#39;s economy is already in crisis as local prices of gasoline, food, commodities, steel and semiconductor chips are rising rapidly. The ongoing geopolitical tensions are expected to result in general price rise, deterioration of current account and fiscal balance and stunt economic growth. Sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe on Russia have raised fears of energy supplies being disrupted from the world&#39;s largest supplier. This is a major setback for an oil-importing country like Pakistan, as it imports large quantities of it. According to analysts, a $10-20 per barrel increase in oil prices over a few quarters could cost Pakistan $1-2 billion in its national currency reserves, further reducing the country&#39;s purchasing power. Importantly, if Europe chooses to replace natural gas from Russia, the world&#39;s largest gas supplier, with LNG to meet its energy requirements, the prices of LNG will rise. This could impact Pakistan, as its economy depends on LNG to generate electricity. As far as Pakistan&#39;s response to the Ukraine crisis is concerned, the previous Imran Khan government and the military have had opposite stances on the matter. Then the Imran government took a neutral stance on the crisis and insisted on resolving the issue diplomatically, while the army had a different stance. In the Islamabad Security Dialogue, Pakistan&#39;s military chief criticized Russia&#39;s military attack on Ukraine. He said that Russia&#39;s invasion of Ukraine is very unfortunate as thousands of people have been killed in it, millions have been made refugees. Half of Ukraine has been destroyed by the war. The most serious geopolitical changes taking place in present-day Europe after World War II have worsened Sri Lanka&#39;s current economic crisis. Sri Lanka receives an average income of $3.5 billion from the tourism sector, with about 30 percent of tourists coming to Sri Lanka from Eastern European countries such as Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. But the rapidly changing equations in Europe are showing a direct adverse effect on Sri Lanka&#39;s tourism sector. Many Russian citizens are trapped in Sri Lanka due to the war in Ukraine and economic sanctions on Russia. Sri Lanka exports about 2 percent of its entire exports to Russia and Ukraine and imports 2.2 percent from these two countries. It is worth noting that trade between Sri Lanka and Russia is not direct but through other European countries, but due to the sanctions currently imposed on Russia, this bilateral trade may now be cut down drastically. Nepal has maintained a non-aligned foreign policy by not commenting on the internal affairs of others. Nonetheless, Nepal has openly condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine. So far, the Ukraine crisis has not had any major economic impact on Nepal as it depends on India for petroleum supplies, yet its prices have increased there. Around 600 students and workers of Nepal are living in Ukraine. Six of these people had requested the Nepal government for repatriation and were brought back home with the help of India. The Nepalese Prime Minister also thanked PM Modi for the help in this. The remaining others have taken refuge in Poland and other neighboring European countries. One thing needs to be noted here that there are a large number of Nepalese immigrants around the world, but the government does not have any structure for their emergency evacuation. There was a similar crisis during the war in Afghanistan, where many Nepalese were trapped, and were rescued by India and Arab countries. From the beginning of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, conventional warfare has played a more significant role than cyber attacks. The conflict has lacked full-scale cyber operations. Russia reportedly launched wiper malware attacks that deleted/erased data from Ukrainian government servers at the beginning of the conflict, while distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks paralyzed Ukrainian systems but no attacks were made on Ukraine&#39;s Critical National Infrastructure (CNI). Despite physical attacks on infrastructure, internet service in Ukraine is operational. The question is why Russia did not launch full-scale cyber attacks on Ukraine despite its superior cyber capabilities? The answer to this question still remains a mystery, but perhaps, large-scale cyber attacks were attempted but failed, or Russian President Putin has asked to keep its cyber capabilities in reserve. Russia&#39;s large-scale cyber attack on Ukraine&#39;s CNI could have an impact on NATO members. For example, a cyber attack on Ukraine&#39;s energy infrastructure could cause an outage in Poland—a NATO member country. NATO has publicly announced that cyber attacks could invoke Article 5. According to NATO&#39;s Article 5, an armed attack against one NATO member country would be considered an attack against all of their members. In the event of a full-scale cyber attack from Russia, cyber criminals and Anonymous group(s) could also jump in and cause misinformation for Russia. There have also been reactions to the Russia-Ukraine war from leaders of international terrorist organizations or Islamic scholars. Their reactions reflect the interest of those leaders in recent international developments. The Islamic State (IS) encouraged Muslims to take advantage of the situation by attacking both Ukraine and Russia, which are Kufr according to IS. Chechen Islamic scholar Salakh Mezhiev openly described the war as a jihad to defend both Islam and Russia from the filth spread by the United States and NATO. Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) in Idlib, Syria, declared that &quot;to participate in the Russian army or join Russia against Ukraine is an act of blasphemy and renouncing religion for that volunteer.&quot; Dr. Yasser al-Naggar, an expert on the Muslim Brotherhood, stressed that Muslims can join both sides of the fight to put one group of infidels against another and be rewarded for killing non-believers. Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov ensured Russian President Putin that about 70,000 Chechen fighters are ready to fight for Russia. However, separatist Chechen groups, such as the Dzhokhar Dudayev Battalion and the Sheikh Mansour Battalion, joined the war on Ukraine&#39;s side against Russia&#39;s military intervention. Separatist Chechen groups have labeled Kadyrov&#39;s group a traitor and non-Chechen for joining the war on Russia&#39;s side. Along with Chechen and Islamic extremist groups, there is an influx of White supremacist groups around the world, which are fighting against Ukraine. are joining the Azov Battalion—a neo-Nazi unit of Ukraine&#39;s National Guard based in Mariupol. However, there is a division among the White supremacist group with some hesitant to support Ukraine&#39;s Jewish President Zelensky and some Holocaust survivors. The mobilization of foreign nationals joining the conflict raises questions about the issues of foreign fighters and the post-conflict future. Some of these foreign fighters are veterans of the US, British, Canadian and Japanese armed forces, but most of them lack combat experience or skills. Many of these foreign fighters may die, and many may return home with PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder) or traumatic experiences of the conflict. Overall, the future of these fighters is bleak. The influx of foreign fighters brings back memories of the anti-Soviet jihad in Afghanistan in the 1980s—when the terrorist community originated. Nearly 40,000 foreign (terrorist) fighters from 120 countries joined the IS-led jihad in another incident sparked by the Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who died in mid-2014. The ongoing war in Ukraine has already prompted a major rethink of the energy policies of many countries. In Europe, the fusion of foreign policy and climate interests has given decarbonisation greater political momentum. For example, Germany has earmarked 200 billion euros for investment in renewable energy generation between now and 2026. The EU has committed to reduce Russian natural gas imports by two-thirds by next winter and cut them completely by 2027. All these efforts could supercharge the transition towards clean and renewable energy and thus decarbonisation. Conversely, the war in Ukraine could derail action to curb climate change. As energy prices rise, the focus has shifted to increasing domestic fossil fuel production. And as countries reconsider their priorities and investments in climate mitigation, the war in Ukraine could delay the fulfillment of these priorities due to increased military spending. The war in Ukraine could also hamper cooperation on global decarbonisation. Russia is the world&#39;s second-largest natural gas producer and third-largest oil producer. As such, it is important for global efforts to decarbonise. But the war in Ukraine could dampen its enthusiasm. Image Source: https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/2022-03-02T175134Z_171971773_RC2GUS9S1HQ7_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-UN.jpg?resize=770%2C513 Post new comment