- Hindi News - International - Russia Ukraine School Airstrike Video Update | Russia Army Russia carried out 55 airstrikes on Ukraine in 24 hours: 11 killed, more than 43 injured; 70 glide bombs fired - Copy link Russia has carried out 55 airstrikes on Ukraine in the last 24 hours. In which 11 people died and more than 43 people were injured. According to Russian news agency RIA, the Russian army attacked different places in Ukraine on Friday with 6 rockets and more than 70 glide bombs. According to Ukrainian officials, the Russian army has been attacking intermittently throughout the night. They attacked a power plant in northern Ukraine, forcing more than 1 lakh people to live without electricity. According to officials, it is becoming difficult to restore electricity amid Russian attacks. Russian soldiers are also targeting water tanks with drones. At the same time, the Ukrainian army said that it shot down 24 out of 27 Russian drones. The eastern regions in the country have suffered the most damage. Warning of continuing attacks for a few days The Ukrainian army has issued a warning of continuing such attacks in the entire area for a few days. The Ukrainian General Staff said that on Saturday there were 45 face-to-face clashes between Ukrainian and Russian forces. A few hours later, the Russian Defense Ministry said that it had captured 30 kilometers in eastern Ukraine. The Ukrainian army said that Russia wants to capture Chasiv Yar. This area is high and if Russia captures this area, it will easily get an edge. Meanwhile, Britain has talked about giving weapons to Ukraine. Defense Minister John Healy reached Ukraine on Sunday, two days after the formation of Keir Starmer&#39;s new government in Britain. This is his first foreign tour. According to the BBC, here he met President Volodymyr Zelensky and Defense Minister Rustam Umerov. During this, John promised to give more cannons, ammunition and missiles to Ukraine. He said that the government has changed in Britain but we are always united with Ukraine. More than 2 years have passed since the Russia-Ukraine war started on 24 February 2022. Vladimir Putin attacked Ukraine due to its insistence on joining NATO. Putin calls this war a military operation. So far, more than 40 lakh Ukrainian citizens have had to leave the country in the war. These people are now living as refugees in other countries. More than 65 lakh Ukrainians have become homeless in the country itself. 10 thousand civilians of Ukraine have died, while 18,500 people have been injured. Ukraine claims that Russia has lost 3.92 lakh soldiers. Meanwhile, the US had imposed sanctions on 500 Russian companies of Russia. Here, Russia had also imposed sanctions on many companies of the European Union (EU). Also read these news... Russia attacks Kharkiv supermarket in Ukraine: 11 killed, dozens injured; Zelensky said - this is the madness of Russian terrorists. Russia is trying to conquer Kharkiv, the second largest city of Ukraine, again after two years. In this sequence, two missiles of the Russian army bombed a hardware supermarket in Kharkiv on Sunday. At least 11 people are reported to have been killed and dozens injured... Read the full news here Israel&#39;s airstrike on Gaza school, 16 killed: More than 75 injured, army said - school is a base of terrorists France parliamentary elections, final phase of voting begins: Radical party ahead in the first phase; President Emmanuel Macron said - I will not leave the presidency even if I lose Former PM Imran said - there should be re-election in Pakistan: said - this is necessary to save the country; threatened hunger strike Quran teacher Pazashkian became President of Iran: fought war with Iraq, opposed hijab; defeated radical Jalili by 30 lakh votes