Ukrainian Foreign Minister India Visit: He came, he saw, he spoke, but it seems impossible that something will be achieved. The two-day visit of Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba to India on March 28-29 was certainly important. Kuleba is the first high-ranking Ukrainian official to visit Delhi since Russia launched a &quot;special military operation&quot; in Ukraine in February 2022. The visit, at the invitation of India&#39;s Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, comes at a time when tensions between Russia and the West have escalated after a terrorist attack near Moscow. At least 140 people have been killed and many injured in this attack. Foreign Minister Kuleba&#39;s main objective was to seek India&#39;s support for Ukraine&#39;s peace plan and the upcoming peace conference in Switzerland. The dates of this peace conference are yet to be announced. He has also advocated resumption of Indian investment and trade relations in Ukraine. &quot;In New Delhi, I had a serious and comprehensive conversation with Dr. S. Jaishankar about Ukrainian-India bilateral relations, the situation in our regions and global security,&quot; he wrote on Twitter. &quot;We paid special attention to the peace formula and our next steps on the path to its implementation. We also co-chaired the review meeting of the Ukrainian-Indian Intergovernmental Commission and agreed to restore the level of cooperation between our countries that existed before the large-scale war unleashed by Russia, and to identify new promising projects to take our relations to the next level.&quot; Ukraine&#39;s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba Will Kuleba&#39;s comments affect India-Russia relations? India is trying to balance its Ukraine outreach as well as its proximity to Russia. Now it remains to be seen how successful Kuleba&#39;s visit is. Trade and investment are sure to get back on track for both countries. S. &quot;Glad to co-chair the review meeting of our Inter-Governmental Commission with Ukraine&#39;s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, FM of Ukraine,&quot; Jaishankar wrote on his X account. &quot;The importance of further strengthening cooperation in all areas was noted. Our immediate goal is to get trade back to earlier levels. The views shared today on trade, health, science and technology and agriculture cooperation were useful. We agreed to prepare for the 7th IGC meeting later this year.&quot;India&#39;s Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar However, this will not help India distance itself from its old friend Russia. In an interview to the Financial Times, the Ukrainian Foreign Minister had said: &quot;Cooperation between India and Russia is largely based on the Soviet legacy. But this is not a legacy that will be kept for centuries; it is a legacy that is fading away.&quot; It is understandable why Kuleba said so, but this is to look at the India-Russia partnership in a limited sense. What does Ukraine&#39;s peace plan include? Russia remains India&#39;s largest defence supplier and perhaps its most trusted friend in the UN Security Council. Apart from cooperation in myriad areas - from nuclear technology to space; thanks to subsidised Russian crude oil, trade volumes between the two countries have reached unprecedented levels in the past year. The minister&#39;s second warning - that China and Russia&#39;s close ties pose a threat to India - is another reason why India wants to maintain close ties with Russia. But apart from that, will the Ukrainian foreign minister&#39;s visit achieve its other objective, mainly support for Ukraine&#39;s &#39;peace formula&#39;? First, let&#39;s see what the peace formula is. In October 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced a &quot;peace formula&quot; for G7 leaders. These are: Radiation and nuclear security (including Russia&#39;s withdrawal from the Zaporizhia nuclear power plant) Food security Energy security, release of prisoners and exiles Restoration of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and 1991 borders Cessation of hostilities and withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukrainian territory Trial and justice for war crimes Protection of the environment Prevention of escalation of conflict Confirmation of the end of hostilities Food security and release of prisoners and exiles seemed to be well agreed upon, but the biggest hurdle in this proposal is the restoration of Ukraine’s territorial integrity. While it is possible to hope for the return of land occupied by Russian forces after February 2022, it is difficult to imagine Russia handing Crimea back to Ukraine. Crimea seems to have integrated with Russia seamlessly over the past decade. Russia annexed it to its territory in 2014. Moreover, given Russia’s military edge in the conflict and the rapid weakening of Ukraine, which is completely dependent on foreign arms, it is difficult to imagine the return of the Donbass region to Ukraine. Provisions such as cessation of hostilities and non-escalation of the conflict would require equal Russian participation in the talks, although Russia has not yet been invited to the upcoming peace conference. How is a Ukrainian decree complicating matters? In an interview with Russian media outlet Izvestia on March 28 – the day Kuleba landed in Delhi – Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov called the peace formula “diplomatically insane”. What complicates such peace plans is a Ukrainian decree itself issued in October 2022 – which bans any dialogue with Russia under the leadership of Vladimir Putin. Given Putin’s landslide victory in the recent Russian presidential elections and his re-election, this decree has become a roadblock to the start of ‘peace talks’ between the two countries. In the same interview, Lavrov said, &quot;I will say a few words on Zelensky&#39;s executive order on banning dialogue with Vladimir Putin&#39;s government. Our president has repeatedly spoken about our readiness to start serious negotiations. But to be assured that these negotiations will be serious, he told Kiev&#39;s Western patrons that Zelensky must first revoke this executive order.&quot; India will take into account these nuances and Russian sensibilities and may try to persuade Ukraine along these lines. What should be India&#39;s plan of action? India should participate in the peace conference in Switzerland, if it takes place. India has always declared its neutrality in this conflict, and has time and again called for dialogue and discussion as the only way forward. India has previously coordinated the &quot;grain deal&quot; brokered by Turkey and, on several occasions, has also played the role of an &quot;envoy&quot; between the two sides, as S Jaishankar said recently at an event in Malaysia. It has even played a role in preventing any potential nuclear attack on Ukrainian targets by Russia. India has participated in all international negotiations on Ukraine - from Copenhagen to Jeddah, Malta and the recent one in Davos. This conference will give India a chance to stand with both Ukraine and the West. It will also establish India as a more neutral supporter of conflict resolution when the opportunity arises. (Hello friends! Stay connected to our Telegram channel here)