Is the Ukraine-Russia war heading towards a nuclear war? Moscow started it... It has been more than two years since the Russia-Ukraine war began. The horror of war is very terrible but neither Russia is ready to retreat nor Ukraine is ready to lay down its arms. Meanwhile, there is news that Russian forces have started military exercises with tactical nuclear weapons. Russian President Vladimir Putin had ordered military exercises with tactical nuclear weapons near the Ukrainian border. Security experts say that this military exercise has been designed as a signal of Putin&#39;s warning. It can be seen in this way that Putin has warned Western countries not to interfere more in his war with Ukraine. Actually, Western countries are providing weapons and other assistance to Ukraine in its war with Russia. The Russian Defense Ministry says that Iskander and Kinjal missiles will be tested in the first phase of this military exercise. This military exercise has once again brought forward everyone&#39;s concerns about nuclear attack. Russia&#39;s military exercise is taking place in its Southern Military District, which borders those parts of Ukraine that Moscow has illegally occupied since the attack began in 2022. What is tactical nuclear weapon? - Nuclear weapons are divided into two categories. One is strategic and the other is tactical. Strategic nuclear weapons are used for long distances. Its purpose is to cause maximum destruction. On the other hand, tactical nuclear weapons are used for short distances and to cause less destruction. - Tactical nuclear weapons are used on a limited scale. They are used with the intention of causing damage to battlefields and military bases. These also include small bombs, missiles and mines. - Tactical nuclear weapons range from small to large sizes. Small weapons can weigh 1 kiloton or even less. Whereas, the larger size weapons can weigh up to 100 kilotons. How dangerous are such weapons? - How dangerous nuclear weapons will be and how much destruction they will cause depends on their size. However, tactical nuclear weapons also bring no less destruction. - If one wants to estimate the destruction caused by these weapons, it can be compared to the nuclear bomb dropped on Hiroshima. The nuclear bomb dropped by America on Hiroshima was of 15 kilotons. It caused 1.46 lakh deaths. - During the Cold War, both America and Russia had reduced the number of their nuclear weapons. However, Russia is still estimated to have more than 2 thousand tactical nuclear weapons. America has 200 such weapons. - Russia also has the maximum number of nuclear weapons. According to the Federation of American Scientists, Russia has 5 thousand 977 nuclear weapons. Whereas, America has 5 thousand 428 nuclear weapons.