Russia-Ukraine War: Whose side are the Muslim countries on in the Ukraine-Russia war? Russia Ukraine War: After months of tension, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced military action on Ukraine on Thursday morning. Many pictures of the Russian attack on Ukraine and the frightened people are coming out. Amidst this attack, concern has also increased about the four and a half lakh Muslims of Ukraine. Most of the Muslim population of Ukraine are Crimean Tatar Muslims who fled to Ukraine to escape repression after Crimea joined Russia. The reaction of Islamic countries is also coming out amid the Russian attack on Ukraine. Whose side are the Islamic countries on in the Ukraine-Russia war? Pakistan- Islamic country Pakistan, while remaining silent on the Ukraine-Russia war, is in a way giving the message that it is with Russia. Pakistan&#39;s Prime Minister Imran Khan is on a visit to Russia at a time when Russia has attacked Ukraine. Imran is meeting Putin today. Meanwhile, America has said on Imran Khan&#39;s visit to Russia that it is the responsibility of every responsible country to object to Russia&#39;s action in Ukraine. In the last few years, the relations between America and Pakistan have become bitter and Pakistan is getting closer to China. Relations between Russia and China are also strong. Pakistan is now giving priority to its friendship with Russia-China, leaving America. In such a situation, some people say that Pakistan is in Russia&#39;s camp. However, Imran Khan had clarified just before his visit that he has nothing to do with the Ukraine-Russia dispute. Pakistan&#39;s National Security Advisor Moeed Yusuf has said about the questions raised on the timing of Imran Khan&#39;s visit to Russia that Imran Khan&#39;s visit to Russia is just like his visit to China. He said, &#39;Yes, there is a global tension but our visit is of bilateral nature. This visit is just like the China visit where economy, economic indicators and connectivity were discussed.&#39; When asked about Pakistan&#39;s stand on the Russia-Ukraine crisis, Yusuf said that Pakistan&#39;s message to Russia and the world is that it is not in any one camp and Russia has also not made any such demand from us. Turkey- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently tweeted about Russia&#39;s attack on Ukraine and strongly condemned the Russian move. He wrote in his tweet, &#39;Today Russia started military action in Ukraine which is unacceptable. We consider this move to be contrary to international law. This is a big setback for the peace and stability of the region.&#39; Erdogan also described Putin&#39;s recognition of two separatist regions of Ukraine as independent regions as unacceptable. He also criticized Western countries for not being able to handle the Ukraine issue properly. Turkey is part of the US-led NATO military alliance but in recent times Turkey&#39;s relations with the US have deteriorated. The Turkish President said that he appeals to reduce tensions while maintaining his cordial relations with Russia and Ukraine. Erdogan says that the issue should be resolved diplomatically. He also said that he stands by his commitment to NATO. Saudi Arabia- Saudi Arabia is the world&#39;s largest oil producing country after Russia. Relations between Russia and Saudi Arabia have strengthened since the arrival of Saudi Crown Prince Salman. Both countries together control oil prices. When the energy crisis deepened in Europe amid Ukraine-Russia tensions and inflation began to rise, the US had repeatedly urged Saudi Arabia to increase oil production. But Saudi did not listen to the US and oil prices continued to rise, which benefited Russia and Saudi Arabia. Russia&#39;s foreign exchange reserves increased due to high oil prices and now when the US and Western countries are imposing economic sanctions on Russia in the event of an attack on Ukraine, their effect is not being seen on Russia at all. United Arab Emirates - According to a report by Al Arabiya News, after Russia recognized two regions of Ukraine as independent territories, UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan spoke to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over the phone and discussed further strengthening relations between the two countries. A statement issued by the UAE Foreign Ministry said that the two leaders emphasized on increasing UAE-Russia bilateral cooperation and working together in every field for the welfare of their people. On the other hand, in the United Nations Security Council, the UAE has also criticized Russia&#39;s move to annex two regions of Ukraine. The UAE says that this is a violation of Ukraine&#39;s sovereignty. The UAE is insisting on resolving the Ukraine-Russia tension through diplomatic talks. Iran - Relations between Iran and the US have been bad for decades. Iran has said that Western countries are responsible for the situation in Ukraine. In a statement by Iran&#39;s Foreign Ministry, which has a good friendship with Russia, the US-led NATO was blamed for the situation in Ukraine, due to which it was said that Iran stands with Russia. However, the Foreign Minister also said that Iran appeals to all parties to maintain peace and reduce tensions. Qatar - The Islamic country Qatar has been an ally of both America and Russia. On Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a letter to Qatar&#39;s Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, in which it was said to take bilateral relations forward. On Monday itself, Vladimir Putin recognized the regions of Ukraine and wrote a letter to the Sheikh of Qatar on Tuesday. Regarding the timing of the letter, it is being said that Qatar-Russia relations are currently in a better state than US-Russia relations. Qatar&#39;s official news agency said that the letter also talks about working together on issues of mutual interest. Indonesia - Indonesia has the world&#39;s largest Muslim population. Indonesia has very old relations with both Russia and America. Indonesia has appealed to resolve the Russia-Ukraine issue peacefully and carefully. According to a report in the Jakarta Post, on Tuesday, President Joko Widodo appealed to all parties to exercise restraint on the Ukraine-Russia issue. Foreign Ministry spokesman Teuku Faizasyaho on Thursday strongly condemned the entry of Russian forces into Ukraine. He said in a press conference that Russia&#39;s move is a blatant violation of Ukraine&#39;s sovereignty. However, he also clarified that Indonesia would not impose any sanctions on Russia.