Russia angry with the support of Western countries to Ukraine, said - Nuclear doctrine ... Russia angry with the support of Western countries to Ukraine, said - change in nuclear doctrine soon Russia&#39;s patience in the ongoing war with Ukraine is now failing. Russia&#39;s Deputy Foreign Minister has said that the strategy of Western countries regarding Ukraine is provocative. We will soon change our nuclear doctrine. The ongoing war between Ukraine and Russia is now proving to be a warning bell for the whole world. Western countries have fully supported Ukraine in this war. Due to these actions of Western countries, Russia is now seriously considering the decision to change its nuclear doctrine. Although this has been said many times by Russia, but this time Russia&#39;s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov has said that we are seriously considering this matter and we will soon reach a conclusion. According to Russian news agency TASS, Ryabkov did not say what the changes would be, but the emphasis and circumstances in which he said this greatly increase the importance of this matter. Right now the Russian nuclear policy is not to attack first. Russia&#39;s nuclear principles were laid down in 2020 by Russian President Vladimir Putin in the form of a decree. According to these principles, Russia will not use nuclear weapons on anyone unless a country attacks it with nuclear weapons or attacks that endanger its existence, in simple words, Russia will not use nuclear bombs on anyone first. According to many news reports, Russia has built many types of tactical nuclear weapons. However, using these weapons can put Russia in more trouble, so Russia has not used these tactical nuclear weapons in the Ukraine war. Russia has been fighting a war on its western border for more than two and a half years. When this attack was made, the whole world had predicted that the Kiev fortress would fall in a few days. But after that the Russian army continued to struggle. Till date, Kiev remains in its place. Ukraine has been fully helped by Western countries. They not only helped Ukraine by giving it ammunition but also sent money. To weaken Russia, they imposed all kinds of sanctions on it. Now Ukraine seems to be reaching a profitable position in this war. Ukraine, which was constantly fighting a defensive war, has started fighting aggressively since last month. Ukraine has claimed that it has captured about 1000 square kilometers of land in the Russian Kursk region. In response to this, President Putin said that we will soon throw the enemies out of our land and now there will be no peace agreement with Ukraine.