Russia close to capturing Ukraine&#39;s second largest city, raining missiles... Russia close to capturing Ukraine&#39;s second largest city, Putin&#39;s army raining missiles Russian army launched a massive attack on the ammunition depots of the Ukrainian army in the Kharkiv region early today. Mykolaiv underground network coordinator Sergei Lebedev gave this information on Friday. Russia has come very close to capturing Ukraine&#39;s second largest city. President Vladimir Putin&#39;s army is raining missiles on Kharkiv. Russian army launched an attack on the ammunition depots of the Ukrainian army in the Kharkiv region. Mykolaiv underground network coordinator Sergei Lebedev gave this information on Friday. Lebedev said, &#39;Reports have been received from Kharkiv. According to this, explosions took place in Kharkiv at 3:20 am local time. They are being reported as loud explosions in the West District. A siren sounded due to the explosions. Ambulances have been sent to the western part without sirens. However, vehicles are going with flashing lights.&#39; Sergei Lebedev said, &#39;It is possible that a Ukrainian air defense missile was launched at that time and a minute later an explosion was heard.&#39; He also said that he has not yet received any accurate information on this matter.&#39; At the same time, a drone crashed at an oil refinery in the Kaluga region of Russia, causing a fire. The emergency service said on Friday that no one was injured in the incident. The official said that 3 tanks containing diesel fuel and a tank containing fuel oil caught fire. Russian army carried out air strikes in 6 areas Russia is a constant attacker on Ukraine. The Russian army carried out air strikes in about 6 areas in the past few days, disrupting power generation and supply. Ukraine&#39;s Energy Minister German Galushchenko said that an air strike warning was issued across Ukraine. In this, explosions were heard in Kiev, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lviv regions and the city of Kremenchuk in the Poltava region. Head of the Poltava Regional Military Administration Philip Pronin said that the explosions caused a fire at an energy infrastructure facility in the Poltava region. However, there were no casualties in the incident. Meanwhile, Ukrainian power grid operator Ukrenergo said that the central part of Ukraine has suffered damage after the air strikes. The Russian army is carrying out missile and drone attacks on Ukrainian power facilities. (With agency input)