Modi cannot be intimidated, Russian President Vladimir Putin again praised Modi cannot be intimidated, Russian President Vladimir Putin again praised The Russian President said that I cannot even imagine that Modi can be intimidated, threatened or forced to take any action or decision against Indian interests and the people of India. The friendship between India and Russia is several decades old. Both countries have helped each other many times. Russian President Vladimir Putin has also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi many times. Once again he has praised PM Modi fiercely. He has said that Modi cannot be intimidated. Putin, referring to India buying Russian oil despite the war in Ukraine, said that first of all, I want to say that relations between Russia and India are constantly developing in all areas. And the reason for this is the policy led by Prime Minister Modi. Putin said these things during the &#39;Russia Calling Investment Forum&#39; in St. Petersburg. Russian President Putin further said in the program that I cannot even imagine that Modi can be intimidated, threatened or forced to take any action or decision against Indian interests and the people of India. There is such pressure, I know. However, I never talk to him about this. I just watch from the outside what is happening. Sometimes I am also surprised by his strict stance on the safety of the Indian people. Let us tell you that the war between Russia and Ukraine has been going on for almost two years. After the start of the war, Western countries including America had imposed strict sanctions on Russia. Even after this, India has bought a large amount of crude oil from Russia. By August 2023, about 18 months after the war in Ukraine, Russia&#39;s crude oil exports to India have crossed 60 million barrels per month. India&#39;s share in Russia&#39;s crude and refined oil exports is about a quarter. This 45-second video of Russian President Putin praising PM Modi has gone viral. It has been viewed thousands of times so far. Earlier, in October, Russian President Vladimir Putin, while speaking at an event, praised the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling him a very intelligent person. He said that we have very good political relations with Prime Minister Modi, he is a very intelligent person. And under his leadership India is making great progress in development. Putin&#39;s praise came in the wake of the G20 summit in India, where the New Delhi Declaration was adopted. The declaration, which Moscow described as a milestone, emphasized peace in the ongoing Ukraine conflict without blaming Russia, which was a departure from the previous Bali Declaration.