India gets permanent seat in Security Council, world-wide respect for India ... This Security Council of the United Nations deliberates on global issues related to security and tries to find solutions to them. The Prime Minister of India had recently visited Russia and his recent visit to Ukraine was also quite popular. India has suggested dialogue as the solution to the long-running war between Russia and Ukraine, which has been praised by all civilized countries. The Singapore diplomat taking India&#39;s side in this matter can be clearly understood. For a long time, India has been leaving its mark with its unique contribution in the United Nations. Especially in the last ten years, major countries give importance to India&#39;s opinion on many important issues of the world. India has also been vocal about the necessary changes and expansion in the United Nations. India&#39;s Foreign Minister has highlighted its need many times from many platforms. Along with this, India is also a strong contender for a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council. All powerful countries are in India&#39;s camp for India&#39;s permanent seat. Not only the western countries and international forums but also the P-5 countries, who are convinced of the diplomacy of India&#39;s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, talk about India&#39;s importance after its permanent entry in the Security Council. Recently, the top leader of Singapore had praised Prime Minister Modi&#39;s dedication towards the country&#39;s progress, calling him Vikas Purush. Now, the former diplomat of the same country says that if we talk about the most powerful countries in the world, then India ranks third among them. Only America and China are ahead of it. The former diplomat further says that Britain was also once in this row, but now it is no longer a powerful nation. Therefore, Britain is sitting on a permanent seat in the Security Council without any reason. It would be ideal if it gives up its seat and then India gets that seat. This Security Council of the United Nations brainstorms on global issues related to security and tries to find solutions to them. The Prime Minister of India had recently visited Russia and recently his visit to Ukraine was also very popular. India has suggested dialogue as a solution to the long-running war between Russia and Ukraine, which has been praised by all civilized countries. The Singapore diplomat taking India&#39;s side in this matter can be clearly understood. The Presidents of America and France have also said that India has a claim for a permanent seat in the Security Council and they are keen to see this happen. This former Singapore diplomat, who has a positive attitude towards India, has also accepted that necessary reforms need to be made in the United Nations. Actually, this former Singapore diplomat was talking about the United Nations and the changes in it in a conversation. Then the reference of India came up and he said this. He also informed that it has been decades since Britain has used the veto power given to it. According to him, that country is afraid that if it uses the veto power, it will be opposed. In such a situation, it would be right for Britain to give up its permanent seat, recognizing its reduced power today. That seat should be given to India again. Comments