Russia Ukraine War: When Ukraine is not a member country, then why should NATO fight with Russia... The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has become the focal point of the Ukraine-Russia war. NATO has also declared war. NATO was established in 1949 after World War II with 12 members from North America and Europe. Now it has 30 members, but Ukraine is not a member of NATO. It has been waiting to become a member of NATO since 2008. US President George W. Bush had insisted on Ukraine&#39;s Membership Action Plan (MAP), but Germany and France blocked the move. They had said that Ukraine would have to meet certain eligibility criteria. Article 5 is the heart of NATO Article 5 of the NATO Charter is the cornerstone of this military alliance. It talks about the principle of collective defense, declaring it the heart of NATO. It obliges NATO member countries to defend each other and establish a sense of solidarity within the alliance. This means that if a member country is attacked by a non-member country, all members will consider it an attack on individual countries and will respond militarily. But Article 5 does not apply to a non-member country like Ukraine. NATO expanded rapidly after 1997 Till the 1980s, only three countries - Greece, West Germany and Spain - became new members of NATO. Then after unification, Germany became its member in 1990. After 1997, NATO&#39;s expansion suddenly gained momentum. The first targeted members were the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland (1999), which were once under Russian influence. After this, former Soviet components came under its purview. Members doubled during Putin&#39;s tenure NATO now has 30 member countries, this number has doubled during the tenure of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Most of the new members are members of the former Soviet Union. NATO strengthened by the disintegration of the Soviet Union It was the collapse of the Soviet Union that prompted NATO to re-strategize its role. Article 5 of the NATO Charter was interpreted to include non-member countries to protect the interests of member countries. Also, if a member wanted NATO&#39;s intervention somewhere, the proposal could be discussed and approved by the Governing Council. When a doctrine troubled NATO The invasion of Iraq in the early 1990s is an example of what did not happen according to the NATO Charter. Kosovo was intervened in 1999 after the approval of the United Nations Security Council. At that time, a doctrine emerged that NATO could go to war after getting a mandate from the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). Such a doctrine would have made NATO dependent on the veto of Russia or China, so the idea was rejected. This is why NATO has decided to fight Ukraine&#39;s Russian war. Article 5 invoked for the first time after 9/11 In fact, NATO invoked Article 5 for military action for the first time in 2001 after the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States. Later, NATO took a collective decision to intervene in the Syrian-Islamic war. Now NATO has intervened in the Ukraine-Russia crisis. NATO chairman has appealed for Ukraine&#39;s membership NATO sees the Russian aggression in Ukraine as a threat to its ally which began trying to join NATO in 1991 and signed a partnership for participation in the NATO program in 1994. Russia also signed for it. Both Russia and Ukraine have their eyes on NATO membership but Ukraine had actually applied for it. Its application for NATO membership is pending. Its president Zelensky has recently appealed again to expedite the decision on the Membership Action Plan (MAP). This is how NATO-Russia relations deteriorated. Russia and NATO formed a consultation forum called the NATO-Russia Council (NRC) after the collapse of the Soviet Union, but Russia&#39;s relations with NATO remained turbulent over Ukraine. Relations turned hostile during the Kosovo crisis in 1999 and Russia&#39;s military action against Georgia in 2008. NATO removed Russia from the cooperation council after Putin ordered the annexation of Crimea in 2014, but Ukraine remained a willing ally of NATO. Russia continued to test the US-dominated military alliance to ignite the flame of the Cold War. The result is that Ukraine has become a battleground for NATO-Russia military battles.