Russia-Ukraine War: America and Europe trying to defame Russia... Russia-Ukraine War: America and Europe trying to defame Russia, Ukraine getting sympathy in propaganda war Russia-Ukraine War: A propaganda war is also going on regarding the Russia-Ukraine war. The picture that the Western media is presenting of this war has dominated almost the whole world. In this communication war... Listen to this news Russia-Ukraine War: A propaganda war is also going on regarding the Russia-Ukraine war. The picture that the Western media is presenting of this war has dominated almost the whole world. In this communication war, Russia has been put in the dock. The whole world has sympathized with Ukraine. Concerned by this, Russian embassies in various countries are trying to clear the situation. They are also rejecting the facts that targeted attacks are being carried out on civilian targets. According to defense experts, war definitely causes devastation. The countries between which there is a war, they always suffer losses. It affects the economy of the whole world. But as far as the Russia-Ukraine war is concerned, the option to stop this war was available to all the big countries including America, Europe apart from these two countries, but no one used that option. America and Europe had the solution to Russia&#39;s concerns. According to defense expert Lieutenant General Rajendra Singh, history will decide who was right and who was wrong in this war. But America and Europe had the solution to Russia&#39;s concerns. They have not made Ukraine a member of NATO till now. There is no possibility of it in the future as well. But if they had assured Russia in this regard, then this war could have been averted. One trick of America and Europe was that they kept assuring Ukraine that NATO forces were with it, due to which Ukraine did not come to the negotiating table earlier. But later America made it clear that NATO forces would not be able to help. Ukraine remained deceived by this. If this situation had been clear to him earlier, he could have considered other options. Similarly, pictures of large-scale attacks on civilian targets are being shown in the media, the veracity of which is completely doubtful. Russian sources say that this is an attempt to gain sympathy in the world. No attack is being carried out targeting civilian targets. According to experts, as far as Russia is concerned, it has taken this step after careful consideration. Its security concerns are justified. It can be understood in the same way that we can never tolerate if our enemy&#39;s forces occupy our neighboring country. Doklam is a small example of this, when Chinese forces reached Bhutan&#39;s part there, India strongly protested and forced them to retreat. Because no country can compromise on security. But the real facts have been suppressed in the horror of war and the propaganda war of the media and Russia&#39;s image has emerged as a villain and a dictator and apart from America and Europe, the number of countries standing in its support is very few. Even those countries which are in support are criticizing the war.