Russia Ukraine War: Putin&#39;s serious warning, of attack on Western countries ... It has been almost three years since the Russia-Ukraine war, but neither Ukraine has taken any step towards peace nor is Russia ready to stop. Western countries are continuously supplying weapons to Ukraine to fight the war against Russia. On this, Russian President Vladimir Putin has once again criticized the Western countries. He also warned that he can also give similar destructive weapons to other countries to attack Western countries. President Putin was speaking at a press conference in St. Petersburg. During the same time, he gave this warning about Western countries. He said that if someone thinks that he can give such weapons in the war zone to create problems for us, then why can&#39;t we? Putin said this after an American senator admitted that American weapons were used in the recent attack by Ukraine on Russian land. Also read: US: A straw in the beard or something else? Why did America mention the interference of foreign powers in the elections? What is the whole matter It is worth noting that recently Mike Rounds, a member of the US Senate Armed Services Committee and Republican Senator from South Dakota, confirmed attacks with American weapons inside Russia. According to the senator, for this, President Joe Biden approved weapons to strike inside Russia to protect the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. These weapons were used to attack the Russian army. The report quoted US officials as saying that the US will not make any changes in its policies regarding Russia. Germany also recently allowed the supply of long-range missiles capable of hitting Russian soil to Ukraine, which President Putin termed as a dangerous step and warned of deteriorating Russia-Germany relations. According to a June 3 report by the Institute for the Study of War, the Ukrainian military attacked Russian S-300/400 air defenses in Belgorod on June 1 or 2, possibly with high-speed artillery or high-speed Mars rockets.