How much destructive material is there in Putin&#39;s nuclear arsenal? How can Russia ... How much destructive material is there in Putin&#39;s nuclear arsenal? How can Russia start a great destruction Russia has 5,580 nuclear weapons. About 1,200 of these are old but still safe. While 4,380 nuclear weapons are still effective and 1,710 of these nuclear weapons have been deployed strategically. Russian President Vladimir Putin has recently once again threatened to use nuclear weapons. After this threat, the concerns of Western countries have increased. Putin has clearly said that if there is a missile attack on Russia, then nuclear weapons can be used in retaliation. Along with this, Putin has warned that if any nuclear power country attacks Russia or other countries attack Russia together, then it will be considered a collective attack and there will be retaliation. After this warning, questions are being raised that how much nuclear power does Russia have and how can it use it. How much nuclear power does Russia have? According to Reuters, Russia has the world&#39;s largest nuclear arsenal since the Soviet era. According to the Federation of American Scientists (FAS), Russia has 5,580 nuclear weapons. About 1,200 of these are old but still safe. While 4,380 nuclear weapons are still effective and 1,710 of these nuclear weapons are strategically deployed. These include 870 ground-launched ballistic missiles, 640 submarine-launched missiles and 200 heavy bombers. Russia&#39;s huge nuclear arsenal means that it can destroy the world many times if it wants. Similarly, America also has so much nuclear power that it can destroy the whole world many times. During the Cold War, the Soviet Union had 40,000 nuclear weapons, while America had 30,000. When can Russia use nuclear weapons? According to Russia&#39;s nuclear policy released in 2020, it can use nuclear weapons when it is attacked with nuclear or weapons of mass destruction or when its existence is in danger. Putin has also recently said that if Russia feels threatened in any way, it can use nuclear weapons. Along with this, Putin has also kept his ally Belarus under the umbrella of nuclear security. Will Russia conduct nuclear tests? Putin has indicated that if the US conducts nuclear tests, Russia can also do so. In 2023, the Russian Parliament passed a bill to withdraw from the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). Putin says that until the US does not conduct a nuclear test, Russia will also not conduct tests. However, nuclear weapons experts have raised concerns that Russia is moving towards conducting nuclear tests, which could be a step that will increase tensions amid the Ukraine war. Putin has the final responsibility for nuclear weapons President Putin has the supreme responsibility to order a nuclear attack in Russia. He has a special nuclear briefcase called &#39;Chejet&#39;, and it always remains with him. Through this, he can directly order a nuclear attack.