India called the report claiming arms supply to Ukraine misleading ... According to a Reuters report, Russia has become angry with India amid the Russia-Ukraine war because the weapons that Indian arms manufacturers are selling to Europe are reaching Ukraine via Europe. According to the report, Russia has protested against this many times but India has not intervened in any way to stop such trade. News agency Reuters has said these things in its report prepared on the basis of talks with Indian and European government, defense industry officials. India called the report misleading On this report of Reuters, a statement has come from India&#39;s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal. He said, &#39;Reuters&#39; report is based on speculation and misleading. The report says that India has violated. Whereas there is nothing like that. Therefore this report is wrong. India&#39;s record of compliance with international obligations on export of military and dual use items has been impeccable. India is making its defense exports keeping in mind the international obligations related to nuclear non-proliferation and on the basis of regulatory framework.&#39; Let us tell you that in the report, the agency has talked about talking to the officials as well as analyzing the customs data. According to sources and customs data, the transfer of weapons to support Ukraine&#39;s defense system against Russia has been going on for more than a year. Three Indian officials told Reuters that Russia has raised the issue on at least two occasions. In the month of July, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov raised the issue with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. What did the Ministry of External Affairs say about the weapons reaching Ukraine? In January, Indian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal was questioned about the Indian weapons reaching Ukraine. In response, he said that India has neither sent nor sold artillery shells to Ukraine. Two sources from the Government of India and two from the defense industry said that very little of the ammunition that Ukraine is using has been produced by India. One official estimated that this is less than 1% of all the weapons Ukraine has imported since the war with Russia began in February 2022. However, it could not be clear whether this ammunition was donated or sold to Ukraine by European countries. Which countries are sending India&#39;s weapons to Ukraine? A Spanish and a senior Indian official, as well as a former top official of Yantra India, told Reuters that the European countries sending Indian weapons to Ukraine also include Italy and the Czech Republic. These are two large member countries of the European Union that are sending large quantities of weapons to Ukraine. Yantra India is a government company whose weapons are being used in Ukraine. The Indian official said that the government is monitoring the situation. But, like a defense industry official with direct knowledge of the arms transfer, he said that India has not taken any action to stop the supply of weapons. &#39;India is seeing Ukraine war as an opportunity...&#39; Russia has been a traditional friend of India and has been supplying weapons for a long time. India has distanced itself from Western sanctions on Russia over the Russia-Ukraine conflict and has refrained from criticising Russia. But six Indian sources familiar with official thinking told Reuters that India sees the war in Europe as an opportunity to grow its nascent arms export sector. India, a major arms importer, is in a race to become an exporter, officials said. According to data submitted to think-tank Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, India exported arms worth about $3 billion between 2018 and 2023. Defence exports crossed $2.5 billion in the last fiscal year and India wants to increase it to about $6 billion by 2029, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said at a conference on August 30. India&#39;s arms exports increased after the start of the Russia-Ukraine war Customs records show that in the two years before the start of the Russia-Ukraine war, India&#39;s three major ammunition manufacturers - Yantra, Munitions India and Kalyani Strategic Systems - exported ammunition worth only $2.8 million to Italy, Czech Republic, Spain and Slovenia. Data shows that between February 2022 and July 2024, this figure increased to $13.525 million. This also includes war material, which India has started exporting to four countries. Arjan Tarapore, a defense expert on India at Stanford University, said that India&#39;s attempt to increase arms exports was a major reason for transferring weapons to Ukraine. He said, &#39;There has been a sudden jump in India&#39;s arms exports and there have also been cases of violations regarding who is using the weapon. A former top official of the secret delivery system said that Italy&#39;s unlisted defense contractor Meccanica per l&#39;Elettronica e Servomeccanismi (MES) is among the companies that are sending shells made in India to Ukraine. MES is the largest foreign customer of the system. The executive said that this Rome-based company buys empty cartridges from India and fills them with explosives. What did the Russian Foreign Minister complain about in his meeting with Jaishankar? India imports more than 60% of its defense weapons from Russia. In July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi went to Russia on his first foreign tour after being elected Prime Minister for the third time. An Indian official with direct knowledge of this meeting said that a meeting was held between Foreign Minister Jaishankar and Lavrov in Kazakhstan that same month. In this meeting, the Russian Foreign Minister had asked about the use of Indian weapons by Ukraine. He complained that some of the weapons being used by Ukraine were made by Indian companies. Information about what Jaishankar said in response was not shared. Walter Ladwig, a South Asia security expert at King&#39;s College London, says that sending ammunition to Ukraine through Europe in small quantities has been a profitable deal for India. He said, &#39;This gives India an opportunity to show Western countries that it is not &#39;on Russia&#39;s side&#39; in the Russia-Ukraine conflict.&#39; He also said that Russia has no influence on Delhi&#39;s decisions.