War and Peace: India and the Russia-Ukraine Peace Initiative - The Hindu Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kyiv, his telephone conversations with US President Joseph Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin have raised hopes that New Delhi is prepared to make efforts to broker peace in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Modi’s visit to the United Nations in September and another trip to Russia in October for the BRICS summit have fuelled those hopes. During the UN visit, Modi will meet US and European leaders and possibly meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky again. Those fuelling speculation on an Indian role, however, would do well to carefully consider the circumstances and India’s posture so far. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, India has stayed out of the fray: this includes External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar once calling the fighting “Europe’s war”; Any peace process would not involve bringing Russia and Ukraine to the negotiating table, and even abstaining from the Swiss peace summit. Even though Modi has repeatedly said that India is only “for peace,” New Delhi has been seen as biased toward Moscow, given its historical ties and military and energy dependence. So India will need to portray itself as more neutral. Meanwhile, the war continues unabated, reflecting the belief on both sides that military gains are yet to be made. Russia’s deadly attacks in Ukraine just before Modi’s visit to Moscow in July, and Ukraine’s actions in Russia’s Kursk Oblast just before his visit to Kyiv last week, demonstrate the dangerous power projections and messages Zelensky and Putin can deliver, regardless of their guest’s sensibilities. In such a difficult situation, New Delhi will have to proceed cautiously if it really wants to join the ranks of others seeking a stake in resolving the conflict. Successful efforts in this direction have been few and require a focused agenda – the Black Sea Grain Initiative; IAEA efforts on nuclear safety at the Zaporizhzhia power plant; and fresh exchanges of Russian and Ukrainian prisoners. India should also clarify its own principles on ceasefire agreements and lasting peace. The Modi government could benefit greatly from studying India’s own history: in the 1950s, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, at the behest of Vienna, mediated with Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev on the withdrawal of troops from Austria’s north-east after the war in exchange for a promise of Austrian neutrality. The Indian peace initiative will be further complicated by proposals put forward by Ukraine and Russia itself: Zelenskyy has previously insisted on a complete military withdrawal by Russia from Ukraine and Putin has now called for the withdrawal of Ukrainian forces from Russian-occupied areas and for Kiev to abandon any attempt to formally join NATO.