Did the Ukrainian army make a mistake by entering Kursk? How will they save Kiev ... Ukraine attacked a 38-storey residential building in Saratov. Also, they infiltrated Kursk and captured it. Russian President Vladimir Putin got angry with this. He launched a terrible attack on many cities of Ukraine. The capital Kiev was also a target. Russia fired a total of 236 weapons. Out of which only 35 could be stopped. The rest have hit their targets. That is, if Putin gets his way, no one will be able to save Ukraine from destruction. Know why? Will Zelensky be able to save Kiev from Putin&#39;s direct attack? The answer is ... no. Or he can try a little. Because Ukraine carried out a 9/11-like drone attack on a residential building in Saratov. Putin got angry. He opened the stockpile of weapons. 236 targets were set on Ukraine. Russia fired 236 weapons. It is claimed that 201 of these targets were hit accurately. Also read: 9/11-like attack on Russia... Drone hit a multi-storey building, then missiles, bombs and drones fell in Ukraine. See the video of the Caliber missile attack below. Russia attacked with 109 Shahed suicide drones. 99 drones destroyed the target. 115 cruise missiles Kh-101, Kalibr and guided air missiles Kh-59/69 were fired. These missiles destroyed 99 targets. Three hypersonic Kinzhal missiles were fired. One of which destroyed the target with accuracy. Apart from this, three Kh-22 cruise missiles were fired. One destroyed the target. 6 Iskander ballistic missiles were fired, one of which hit the target. This means that Ukraine and the NATO forces supporting it shot down some missiles and drones. Some fell in open areas or rivers. Due to which there was no damage. Also read: Russia carried out the biggest attack with more than 100 missiles, Putin&#39;s target is the capital Kiev. See below the video of missiles and drones falling in Kiev. If Russia comes to its senses, Ukraine will suffer huge losses. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky will be able to save only a little area even after trying. As long as America and other countries support him, Putin will destroy many cities by launching a massive attack. By attacking Kursk, Zelensky has made Putin more angry. Defense experts believe that Putin can also use controlled nuclear weapons. In the last attack, Russia disrupted Ukraine&#39;s power supply. Blown up gas supply stations. Disrupted railway services. If Putin wants, it will be difficult to stop him. Now the answer to the second question.. Also read: Ukraine used drone-missile Palyanytsia for the first time, blew up Russia&#39;s weapons depot. Did the Ukrainian army make a mistake by entering Kursk or are they winning the war? The world was stunned by the courage shown by Ukraine to occupy and infiltrate the Kursk region of Russia. Even Russia was shaken. Putin held his head. The wave of war that was going on between the two has turned around. Some people are saying that this will help Ukraine in making a deal. At the same time, some are calling it a mistake. Why a mistake… because in the process of attacking Kursk, Ukraine lost 4400 of its soldiers. 65 tanks, 27 infantry fighting vehicles, 53 armored personnel carriers, 316 armored fighting vehicles, 133 motor vehicles, 31 artillery guns, 5 surface-to-air missile launchers, 9 multiple launch rocket systems - including three HIMARS, 6 electronic warfare stations, a unit of engineering vehicles, two counter obstacle vehicles and one UR-77 mine clearing vehicle have been lost. Also read: Ukraine&#39;s 5 dangerous weapons that are making Russia tremble... Why are the attacks having horrific benefits... Ukraine&#39;s attack in Kursk has put Russia in a dilemma whether to save Donbass or Kursk Oblast. Now Russia cannot launch any major military attack for the whole year. It will have to put all its strength in protecting its areas. Before the attack on Kursk, Russia was losing about 1000 soldiers every day. But every month it was recruiting 20 to 30 thousand people. Almost the same number of military vehicles are being prepared. But now, after the arrival of the Ukrainian army in Kursk, Russia is left with only a few reserve military units. Which are being used to take on the Ukrainian army in Kursk and Belgorod. Therefore, Russia is not in a position to fight a ground battle except air and artillery attacks. Also read: Israel needs the support of F-15 &#39;Ram&#39; fighter jets... Know how it is destroying Hezbollah&#39;s hideouts? Due to Ukraine&#39;s attack on Kursk, Russia will have to strengthen all its borders. Deployment will have to be increased. Air operations will have to be strengthened. Ukrainian drones have shot down many Russian drones. Airfields have been attacked. Helicopters have been attacked. Due to which Russian military operations have slowed down.