Russia: US position on attack on Crocus Town Hall clearly biased

Russia considers the US position on the terrorist act at Crocus Town Hall to be clearly biased, Washington is trying to defend Ukraine, Maria Zakharova, the official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, told Sputnik.

Earlier, the head of Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB), Aleksandr Bortnikov, said that preliminary data on the detainees in the case of the terrorist attack on the Crocus City Hall concert hall confirmed the Ukrainian trail, and that the security services will continue to work on the information.

"They exposed themselves. They [the US] started shouting, not calling for an investigation, and started shielding Ukraine from the impact. Their involvement and involvement in this story is obvious," said Zakharova.

According to the diplomat, in the absence of Kiev's involvement, Washington's first statements should have been about the need for investigation and presentation of facts.

It should be noted that immediately after the attack on Friday (22), the strategic communications coordinator of the White House National Security Council, John Kirby, said that there was no evidence that Ukraine or Ukrainians were involved in the attack in Moscow. Later, the US repeatedly stated that there was no "Ukrainian trace" in the case. In particular, the US State Department stated that "there was no Ukrainian involvement in the attack on Crocus Town Hall, period".

In response, Maria Zakharova expressed doubts about the Washington authorities drawing "conclusions about anyone's involvement in the midst of a tragedy".

The attack on the Crocus City Hall, located in the city of Krasnogorsk on the outskirts of Moscow, took place on Friday night (22), when a large number of people were preparing to attend a concert by the Russian rock band Picnic. A Sputnik correspondent who witnessed the attack reported that at least three men in camouflage stormed the theater, shooting people at point-blank range and throwing incendiary bombs.
