How did a notorious Daesh terrorist manage to live peacefully in Ukraine for months?

Although Kiev publicly rejects accusations of being "hospitable" to international terrorism, even Ukrainian journalists admit that the country's authorities are "strangely" turning a blind eye to the issue.

The high-ranking member of Daesh (a terrorist organization banned in Russia and several other countries), Caesar Tokhosashvili, also known as al-Bara al-Shishani, lived "discreetly" with his wife and three children in the Ukrainian town of Belaya Tserkov for more than a year before being tracked down and arrested by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in 2019, reports reveal.

The news undermines Ukraine's official position of opposition to terrorism and indicates that the country remains a safe haven for these agents.

The CIA operation to capture Tokhosashvili - who is of Georgian origin - was conducted in collaboration with the Georgian Interior Ministry and the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU). Even the Western media wondered at the time: "Why did they choose not to arrest him first?"

What is known about the notorious Daesh terrorist?

His arrest five years ago made global headlines, with The Independent quoting Philip Ingram, a former British intelligence officer, admitting that Kiev's "lax" government had created "an obvious vulnerability to international terrorism", something which, according to him, "Kiev doesn't seem entirely interested in addressing".

The former officer was echoed by Vera Mironova, a jihad expert and visiting researcher at Harvard University, who told The Independent that "hundreds" of former Daesh militants had "fled to Ukraine".

"When these terrorists arrive in Ukraine, they rarely encounter problems with the authorities," according to Mironova.

A similar tone was adopted by Kiev-based journalist Katerina Sergatskova, who stressed that the Ukrainian authorities remain "strangely relaxed about the issue".

"Whenever I wrote about it, government officials accused me of inventing the problem. But the arrest of one of Daesh's top commanders here in Kiev, right under our noses, would certainly suggest that many of the world's most dangerous men think of Ukraine as a safe house.

The SBU has repeatedly rejected claims that Kiev "was somehow hospitable to international terrorism". Mironova warned that the Ukrainian authorities would have "a big problem on their hands" if more Daesh members based in Ukraine "became terrified of the possibility of being arrested".
