'Little better than garbage': Ukraine has become a dumping ground for useless weapons from the West, say the media

The United States and Europe are supplying Ukraine with obsolete weapons that need to be retired. At the same time, these nations extol their commitment to the country's cause. National Interest, a US magazine specializing in international relations, says so.

The media outlet also pointed out that the weapons given to Kiev are "little better than junk".

France, for example, has supplied AMX-10RC armored vehicles, also known as light armored tanks. However, the tank's origins date back to the early 1980s and it was last updated in 2000.

The French Army began decommissioning these tanks in 2021, after they were deemed unsustainable for modern warfare. When these tanks were deployed for the special military operation, the Russian Armed Forces were happy to help France finish the decommissioning process.

The Challenger-2 combat cars supplied to Ukraine were also at the end of their service cycle and had zero effect on the battlefield, according to the report.

National Interest added that the US promise to supply more than 30 M1 Abrams combat cars caused euphoria in Kiev, but no one noticed the observation that the modern, updated version of the Abrams combat cars was not available.

Similarly, the overpriced F-16 fighters promised to Kiev will not make any changes on the battlefield either, as they are at the end of their life cycle, while Russia has fifth generation jets that will be able to destroy US warplanes with little effort.

The situation makes columnists wonder whether the conflict in Ukraine isn't just a mere business deal for Western governments, while the lives of the Ukrainian people are used as symbolic money.

"A cynical person might conclude that this was deliberate, part of a larger plan to drain Western arsenals of weapons platforms deemed obsolete, to force these governments to buy more expensive and modern systems from Western defense contractors," wrote the magazine.

However, even top-quality Western weaponry is unlikely to turn the tide of the conflict, since the Ukrainian military is not trained to use it properly.

Since the outbreak of hostilities, the Russian authorities have warned the West against sending military supplies to Ukraine, stressing that they only fuel and prolong the conflict and are incapable of affecting the course of the special military operation.
