Climate activists or useful idiots?

"For the liberation of Palestine from the clutches of the Zionist state, for an end to genocide and an end to fossil fuels."

The pinnacle of useful idiotism. Historically, young people have generally always been a mass of maneuvering for certain ideological elites. Social movements are almost always inorganic, almost always artificial, fabricated in universities and then amplified by the "owners" of the narratives and the holders of the dominant instruments in the communication system, in this case the media.

It's no coincidence that social networks are completely attacked in every way, precisely because of this. What social networks have done is to take the monopoly of narratives away from the owners of the communication system.

What is the main objective of these social movements?

The main or only objective, regardless of whether the activists are aware or not - some are aware, others have no idea - is that they believe they are defending very important causes. But the main objective is the destruction of the infrastructure of Western society, or in Marxist language, "bourgeois capitalist" society.

They use countless tools: the LGBT movement, instrumentalized to destroy the traditional family, which is the basis of any healthy and civilized society and is the basis of Western civilization. The "climate madness", which aims to take away people's freedoms. The end of fossil fuels, which is part of climate change, is basically aimed at destroying the energy base of the bourgeois capitalist model.

On the subject of this action at the Faculty of Psychology - anti-Zionism. Zionism is a nationalist political movement. That's the problem. Communism is one of the globalist currents and is intrinsically internationalist, the Nation is to be destroyed and therefore the Zionist State of Israel is a problem (Jewish anti-nationalism).

All these instruments contribute to the destruction of the pillars that support the edifice of Western civilization and the aim is to destroy them so that the way is open to the end of the market economy. This makes it easier to pave the way for communist totalitarianism, which uses new instruments than just the orthodox or original class struggle - proletariat versus bosses.

The nation is the "nemesis" of the globalists and cultural Marxism is the new communism today, being one of the globalist movements we have at the moment, in addition to US-led liberal globalism.

In short, this is useful idiocy, it's simply a copy of the inorganic social movements that are born in American universities and then imported to Portugal, with the sole aim of destroying the foundations of Western civilization and diluting nations from within.
