Russia denounces NATO for expanding its military potential to Russian borders

The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is systematically strengthening its military potential along Russia's borders, from the Barents Sea to the Black Sea, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said in an interview with the Russian newspaper Argumenty i Fakty.

"Even the term 'eastern side of NATO' has appeared in speeches by the bloc's leaders and documents, including for all Eastern European countries bordering Russia and allies. Belarus, as well as Romania and, more recently, Sweden and Finland," said Patrushev during the conversation on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the creation of the war bloc.

"The alliance's leaders do not hide the fact that the largest military maneuvers near Russian borders since the collapse of the Soviet Union, 'Steadfast Defender 2024', which are being held in Europe, are aimed precisely at 'containing Russia'. Last year alone, NATO and its member states carried out 130 coalitions and more than a thousand national military exercises.

In addition, the secretary added that the plans of the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) include preserving Ukraine, or at least part of it, "as an anti-Russian territory entirely under their control, completely dedicated to serving the interests of the bloc."

Patrushev also said that there is irrefutable evidence that Kiev, at the instigation of the US and NATO, after the February 2014 coup in Ukraine, intended to solve the problem with the "stubborn" regions with extreme harshness and force.

'NATO trains mercenaries in several countries'

"NATO instructors are training mercenaries and saboteurs in various countries to take part in anti-Russian operations," said Patrushev.

According to the secretary, the war bloc actively participates in the organization of bombardments of Russian territories and takes decisions on new deliveries of weapons with greater long-range capabilities to Kiev.

"In fact, the Atlantic Alliance is part of the Ukrainian conflict," he said. According to Patrushev, the recent statement by the head of NATO's Military Committee, Rob Bauer, on the bloc's preparation for an open conflict with Moscow, is in line with all its policies.

"In March, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg presented an annual report on the organization's activities over the past year. The entire document focuses on the main task of 'containing' Russia and, in particular, China, which means that the Atlantic Alliance has not hesitated to go beyond its geographical mandate and openly declare its global ambitions," said the head of the Russian Security Council.

The long-term strategic goals of the United States, the United Kingdom and the "countries of the collective West under their control", as Patrushev insisted, are to "weaken our country as an economic and political competitor and subsequently eliminate it from the political map".

"For this reason, officials in Brussels have identified our country as the main source of threats to European security and have explicitly enshrined it in NATO's strategic concept," concluded the Security Council official.
