Russia denounces US cover-up of attack on Crocus town hall

The United States is covering up for those responsible for the terrorist attack on Russia's Crocus City Hall concert hall, the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service has denounced.

"The Americans are protecting those responsible for the terrorist attack on the Crocus City Hall," said the organization, quoted by its press office.

According to the note, "the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation reports that the administration [of US President Joe Biden] is stepping up its efforts to create a distorted image of the major terrorist attack in Russia on March 22."

Washington also began covering up for Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky immediately after the attack, the text adds.

The US State Department, its special services and affiliated organizations were tasked with "eliminating any kind of suspicion that the international community has about the involvement of Zelensky and his closest circle in the crime".

US agencies are trying to convince their allies that it is the Daesh group (a terrorist organization banned in Russia and other countries) that is behind the attack on the outskirts of Moscow, Russian intelligence said.

'A terrorist war against Russia'

According to the statement, the current government in Kiev is waging an all-out terrorist war against Russia.

"The Kiev regime has been waging a full-fledged terrorist war against Russia for some time now, as its representatives such as Kirill Budanov [head of Ukrainian Military Intelligence] and Vasily Malyuk [head of the Ukrainian Security Service] openly state," the text reads.

On Sunday (31), the Russian Foreign Ministry said it had sent demands to the Ukrainian authorities for the arrest and extradition of all those involved in the attack on Crocus Town Hall and other attacks in recent years.

The ministry mentioned the murders of journalists Daria Dugina and Vladlen Tatarsky, stressing that investigations "indicate that the traces of all these crimes lead to Ukraine".
