July had the hottest day ever recorded in the global average; understand why

The Earth recorded the hottest day in the entire historical series of temperature measurements this Sunday, July 21. And in the middle of summer in the northern hemisphere, many parts of the Mediterranean are facing extreme risks of forest fires.

The global figure beat the previous record, set a year ago, according to provisional data from the European Union's Copernicus Climate Change Service.

Average global temperatures have now reached or exceeded a key climate threshold for 12 months, highlighting the challenge of limiting global warming to less than 1.5ºC above pre-industrial times, as set out in the Paris Agreement.

- The Paris Agreement, signed in 2015, seeks to limit global warming to less than 2°C above the pre-industrial average and, ideally, to 1.5°C.

Climate change is increasing the frequency and intensity of heatwaves, causing extreme weather phenomena, from floods to forest fires - in Brazil, the floods in Rio Grande do Sul and the fires in the Pantanal and the Amazon are examples.

In southern Europe, global warming is causing temperatures to exceed 40ºC, as has happened in Greece over the last two weeks. As a result, the threat of forest fires is growing.

In Greece, there were at least 33 forest fires between Sunday and Monday 22. Athens and parts of the south of the country remain on high alert.

The cooler weather will bring some relief to the Mediterranean nation this week, although temperatures are still expected to exceed 39ºC in some parts of mainland Europe this Tuesday 23rd.

Spain is also at extreme risk of fire this week as temperatures rise in the south of the country. Seville and Cordoba will approach 43ºC on Wednesday 24th, according to the Spanish weather agency AEMET.

Parts of southern France and Italy are also at risk of forest fires. Further north, Berlin and Paris - which is hosting the Olympic Games starting this week - are expected to face heatwaves at the beginning of August. The average temperature in the German capital is expected to rise to 28ºC on August 6, eight degrees above the 30-year normal.

Extreme heat has already wreaked havoc on many parts of the global economy this year, affecting everything from air travel to power grids.

The average temperature for the year to June was 1.64°C higher than the 1850-1900 era, according to Copernicus. Last month was the hottest on record, a record set for the 13th time in a row in recent months.
