Austrian climate activists "Last Generation" end protests due to lack of results

The "Last Generation" movement has manifested itself in many different ways over several years, almost always disruptively, in an attempt to attract the attention of the media and the public.

Among the most publicized actions have been road closures, disruptions of motorsport and winter sports events, clashes with politicians, disrupting plays, cementing cars, disrupting shareholder meetings of fossil fuel companies, disrupting marathons and, most recently, protests at airports.

Now the group has announced an end to protest actions, at least until it finds new ways to make itself heard. Last Generation says that the government is not responding and that society itself has come out in favor of using fossil fuels.

"The form of protest was absolutely necessary at the time we decided to do it. We also needed a certain amount of everyday disruption," says Anja Windl, a Last Generation activist. "But at the end of the day, the problem of failure is more that few people dared, they didn't have the courage to really confront the government peacefully."

Activist Afra Porsche is calm about the authorities' investigations into the protests the group has already held. She also believes that the protests will return, but in a different way.

"We need to shake things up. Civil resistance is legitimate and democratic. There will be resistance again, but in a different way," says Afra Porsche.

Group succeeds in attracting attention

Communications expert Jakob-Moritz Eberl believes that the group has at least achieved its goal of attracting attention.

"The aim was to generate attention and draw attention to the fact that the situation is unpleasant," says Jakob-Moritz Eberl. "There is scientific evidence that the importance of the climate crisis or climate change is much greater after these actions, even for a short period of time, but the issue becomes important for society."

Meteorologist Michael Staudinger, from the group "Scientists for the Future", argues that scientists also have an important role to play in spreading these concerns.

"Well, it was an attempt to convey a certain message. It wasn't very successful, but we noticed young people expressing their concerns in their own way," says Eberl. "Now we must see what happens next. Science must convey these issues in the right way."

The scientist stresses that the situation is "very serious" and that the most affected are young people.

"The next generation and the generation after that will be ten times more affected than ours," he concludes.
