President of oil company Emirates to lead COP28

The head of the United Arab Emirates oil company was appointed president of the annual UN climate conference scheduled for the end of the year in the Gulf country, drawing criticism from environmental campaigners.

The UAE's Minister of Industry, Chairman of oil giant ADNOC (Abu Dhabi National Oil Company) and Special Envoy for Climate Change, Sultan Ahmed al Jaber, is the "President-designate for the 28th Conference of the Parties (COP28)", a statement from the official WAM news agency said on Thursday.

It will be the first time that the president of a company will lead the work of the COP, which this year will be held in Dubai between November and December.

"We will bring a pragmatic, realistic and solution-oriented approach," said Sultan Ahmed al Jaber after his appointment. "Climate action represents a great economic opportunity to invest in sustainable growth. Financing is the key," he added.

Sultan Ahmed al Jaber has headed the UAE's national oil company since 2016, as well as Masdar, the country's renewable energy company.

His dual role has earned him criticism from environmentalists.

"The appointment of Sultan Ahmed al Jaber to the COP28 presidency as president of Abu Dhabi's national oil company is an outrageous conflict of interest," said Harjeet Singh of Climate Action Network International.

"The constant threat of fossil fuel lobbyists at UN climate negotiations has always undermined the outcome of climate conferences. This situation has now reached a dangerous and unprecedented level," he added.

Oil and gas lobbyists were numerous at the COP27 organized last November in Egypt, 25% more than at the previous meeting in Glasgow, according to environmental associations.

The largest contingent of lobbyists was from the UAE, followed by the Russians.

The United Arab Emirates, one of the world's largest oil exporters, is in favor of phasing out hydrocarbons and has committed itself to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.

The country has experienced rapid economic growth since the 1970s, thanks to oil, but its economy has gradually diversified.

"Limiting warming to 1.5°C [as set out in the 2015 Paris Agreement] will require significant reductions in emissions, a pragmatic, practical and realistic approach to the energy transition and greater aid to emerging economies," says the statement released today.

Climate change is a sensitive issue in the Gulf countries, where temperatures often reach 50°C in summer.

