Two more dolphin carcasses found in Lake Tefé, in the state of Amazonas

The action to monitor the emergency and possible removal of dolphins from Lake Tefé, in the Amazon, has found two more carcasses of these animals, the Mamirauá Sustainable Development Institute said today (2). The mobilization, which took place over the weekend, followed the death of more than 100 aquatic mammals, such as the red river dolphin and the tucuxi, which lived in the area.

On Saturday (30), the Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity Conservation (ICMBio) sent teams of veterinarians and staff from the Aquatic Mammal Center (CMA) and the Environmental Emergency Division to investigate the causes of the extreme mortality of these mammals. In addition to the drought, the hypothesis is that the heat is causing the deaths of fish and mammals in the region.

The mobilization involves partner organizations, such as Mamirauá, with actions to monitor the animals still alive, search for and collect carcasses, take water samples for disease analysis and monitor the water temperature, which reached 40 degrees Celsius (ºC).

"We continue to monitor the temperature of the lake. On the 28th, the temperature reached 39.1°C, dropped to 37°C on Friday and 32°C on Saturday. However, yesterday, at 4pm, it rose to 37.8°C and we are very alert. There has not yet been a major breakthrough in finding out the cause of the deaths, but temperature is still the main candidate for the cause of mortality, Ayan Fleischmann, a member of the Mamirauá Institute, told Agência Brasil.

According to Fleischmann, there is still no update on the rescue of the animals still alive in the lake. On Friday (29), Mamirauá issued a warning to the population living near Lake Tefé to avoid contact with the lake's waters and also recreational use.

In an interview with Rádio Nacional da Amazónia's Viva Maria program, the coordinator of Mamirauá's Amazonian Aquatic Mammals Research Group, Miriam Marmontel, said on Saturday (30) that these animals end up acting as sentinels for water quality and are the first to be affected by changes in the environment.

"They gave us the warning and now we have to pay attention to it. The tendency, if we don't change our habits, is for these events to continue. Global warming and changes in climate parameters are affecting an environment that we use a lot, especially in the Amazon. Water is essential for the Amazonians and this water, which is currently not suitable for the dolphin, is also not suitable for humans," said the researcher.
