Amorim: Hamas leader's assassination was 'an excess that could be costly'

Haniyeh was a leader who talked, said Amorim. "Hamas carried out a terrorist action [against Israel in October 2023] that we condemn without any doubt. But it is not treated in most of the region as a terrorist group. It is treated as a political party, perhaps more radical, which frequents Turkey, a NATO member, and Iran."

"Our problem is with the Netanyahu government." The presidential adviser also criticized Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. "You can't confuse the Jewish people, Netanyahu's government and the State of Israel. If he [Netanyahu] leaves power, he may be arrested, there are several charges against him... The war is a way for him to stay in power."

Haniyeh was wanted by the International Criminal Court. On May 20, arrest warrants were issued against the political leader and Hamas' main interlocutor for crimes against humanity committed since October 7. The same court decision also issued a warrant against Netanyahu.

Russia vs. Ukraine

Amorim said that "adopting Ukraine's principled and radical position" would not resolve the country's conflict with Russia. The diplomat defended the negotiating proposal signed by Brazil and China at the end of May. According to him, with the impasse in the attempt to find a resolution based on what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky proposes, the plan drawn up by Brasilia and Beijing is beginning to be noticed by other countries.

There is a positive harmony between Brazil and China, which are big countries, defend the UN Charter, defend non-intervention, defend territorial integrity. Implicitly, there's a lot of criticism of Russia, but there's no point in adopting Ukraine's radical, principled stance either - it won't work.

Celso Amorim, Lula's advisor on international affairs

At the end of May, Amorim went to China and signed a document with the Chinese Foreign Minister, Wang Yi, called "Common Understandings between Brazil and China on a Political Resolution to the Crisis in Ukraine". The text contains six points that should be considered for a solution to the war and the support of both countries for holding an international peace conference "at an appropriate time".

Venezuela

In the interview, Amorim also said that the delay by the National Electoral Committee had disappointed the Brazilian authorities. The Foreign Minister also said he believed that the non-profit organization that monitors elections around the world, the Carter Center, "is not manipulated".

The presidential advisor also said that the Venezuelan context aggravates the situation. "In any country, the burden of proof is on the accuser. But in the case of Venezuela, the burden of proof is on the one who is accused, on the one who is the object of suspicion. Given everything that has already happened, the entire political framework, there is an expectation that Venezuela and the Venezuelan government will be able to prove the vote that he claims to have had."

He said that the minutes could clear up doubts about the electoral count. "I asked President Maduro about this [the minutes] and he said it was a matter of two or three days," Amorim told the presenter.
