Artists have given up on "saving" the Amazon

This week the Amazon experienced its worst fire season in 17 years. The corridor of smoke that has spread has already affected 10 Brazilian states. Despite the fact that the news about the fires not only in the Amazon Rainforest but also in the Pantanal has been highlighted in the media, the concern of those who claim to be defenders of the environment has not been anywhere near the same as that of the previous government.

In 2021, when everything was the fault of the president in office, Greenpeace Brasil brought together more than 30 artists to launch the song "Canção para a Amazónia" (Song for the Amazon), signed by Carlos Rennó and Nando Reis. Several artists who took part in the action also campaigned for Lula in 2022, of course. However, they all remain silent about the increase in fires in Brazil.

Three years ago, Nando Reis himself, commenting on the project, said: "The situation in the Amazon is dramatic, serious and represents the climate catastrophe we are experiencing. And to make matters worse, we have a president who has no commitment to fighting deforestation." Will Nando's concern no longer be the same in 2024, given that he is not making the same demand now?

Also noteworthy is the speech by Greenpeace's Amazon Campaign Spokesperson, Carolina Marçal, who said in September 2021 that "the Bolsonaro misgovernment is implementing a destructive anti-environmental agenda. We will continue to resist and fight for the Amazon. Art is a powerful form of activism, struggle and resistance, and we are honored to participate in a project like this," she said. Where has all this resistance gone now that Lula is president?

During the last election campaign, one of the main agendas raised by the left was environmental issues and the protection of indigenous people, but as with many other things, it was another failure.

The number of Ianomami deaths in 2023 was higher than in 2022. Earlier this month, the newspaper "Estadão" reported that Lula's government was going to erase the data on indigenous deaths. Nothing that seems to worry progressive singers either.

Minister Marina Silva, now forced to appear more often due to the fire crisis, has already blamed climate change, human actions and El Niño. She even blamed the previous administration for the record deforestation under the PT government, but before she supported and joined the PT there weren't that many culprits. There was only one target. As always, according to the left, nothing bad that happens when they are in power is their fault, always the fault of others.

In 2020, Lula questioned where the armed forces were trying to fight the fires in the Pantanal and the Amazon, and said that the then Minister of the Environment was a citizen without character and without respect for nature. I'm still waiting for the moment when you and your current minister will be criticized for what is happening.

With deforestation or fires, dead jaguars or charred caimans, indigenous people being killed or committing suicide, the artists who were so fond of appearing in previous years didn't have the courage to take a stand now, confirming that their concern wasn't for nature but for their pet politician. They quickly gave up on "saving" the Amazon.
