Russia accuses Ukraine of blackmailing Hungary and Slovakia

"The decision of [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky's regime to stop transporting oil to Hungary and Slovakia once again demonstrates Kyiv's inability to negotiate and its penchant for trivial blackmail," Andrei Nastasin, a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry (MFA), told a press conference.

He added that the transit of energy resources through Ukraine "has become a lever of manipulation for the Kiev regime, whose actions in this direction are encouraged by the West".

According to Nastasin, "Zelensky's bosses have set themselves the goal of definitively ending Russia's energy cooperation with those European countries, which are nevertheless guided by their own national interests and rational economic considerations."

The diplomat pointed out that "the new escalation of legal pressure against Lukoil" coincided with a series of diplomatic initiatives by Budapest for the rapid resolution of the conflict in Ukraine, and with the refusal of Hungary and Slovakia to support new European Union (EU) sanctions against Russia.

The Russian MFA spokesman recalled that Ukraine is a candidate country for the European Union (EU) and stressed that Kiev, "with its insane actions, threatens the energy security of two EU member states and certainly other member and candidate countries."

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó on Tuesday accused the European Commission of orchestrating the interruption of Russian oil supplies to the bloc via Ukraine, and warned that the dispute could lead to an energy crisis.

In a message on the social network Facebook, Szijjártó harshly criticized the executive body of the European Union (EU), considering that "it has done nothing" since Budapest and Bratislava asked it to intervene in the dispute over the delivery of crude oil.

"Despite threats to the energy security of two EU member states ... Brussels remains silent," wrote Szijjártó, adding that the European Commission either shows too much "weakness" to protect the interests of Slovakia and Hungary, or "it was Brussels, not Kiev, that invented all this."

Budapest and Bratislava continue to demand that the Brussels leadership adopt immediate measures to allow the transit of Lukoil oil to the two countries.