Ukrainian MFA asks China for "measures" against Russia's evasion of sanctions

The latest wave of Western sanctions targets entities that allow Moscow to evade the restrictions and the European Union has directed measures against 19 Chinese companies, several of which are based in Hong Kong.

"Mr. Kuleba asked the Hong Kong administration to take measures to prevent Russia and Russian companies from using Hong Kong to circumvent the restrictive measures imposed," Kiev's diplomatic service said in a statement.

"Russia's machinations must not damage Hong Kong's reputation as a highly developed liberal economy built on unwavering respect for the rule of law," the Ukrainian ministry continued.

According to the statement, "these restrictive measures are necessary to weaken Russia's ability to wage war and kill people in Ukraine."

Questioned by Agence France Presse (AFP), a Hong Kong government spokesman replied that China's special administrative region "strictly implements and enforces UN Security Council sanctions".

"Any action taken by the government of the Special Administrative Region will be strictly in accordance with the laws of Hong Kong," he added.

Kuleba also spoke in Hong Kong about the "possibilities for trade and investment" in this region.

On Tuesday, the Ukrainian foreign minister began his first visit to China since the start of the Russian invasion in February 2022, with Beijing a key partner of Moscow and accused by the West of helping the Kremlin in its war effort.

During his talks with Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, Kuleba indicated that Ukraine was ready to negotiate peace with Russia when Russia was ready to do so in "good faith".

At the meeting, Kiev's chief diplomat asked Beijing for support for a "direct dialog" to end the conflict.

"Deep, detailed and substantive discussions are planned with my Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on ways to achieve a just peace," the head of Kiev's diplomacy wrote on the social network Instagram.

Russia commented today that it is willing to negotiate with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, despite questioning his legitimacy, and does not rule out "several variants" of negotiations, according to Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov.