"We see no action. Zelensky continues to massacre Ukrainian citizens"

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday that Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky cannot be trusted when talking about possible negotiations with Russia.

"Nobody has any confidence in him. Everyone understands perfectly well that this is a man who can distort everything, who can lie, who can abandon everything, as he abandoned even his own people, literally throwing the people of Ukraine onto a sacrificial altar," she said at a press conference, quoted by Tass.

In Zakharova's view, "nothing has been done by anyone" in relation to Ukraine, "neither by Zelensky, nor by his administration or other branches of government, nor by Western manipulators to repeal the law banning Ukraine from negotiating with Russia".

"We hear a lot of words, but basically we don't see any deeds. Well, except for the fact that Zelensky continues to massacre Ukrainian citizens," he added.

Zakharova also suggested that Zelensky and those who support him "want to make another attempt to promote the so-called peace formula, which they are trying, unsuccessfully". "They want to force literally everyone, to involve as many countries as possible in their discussion under false pretenses," she stressed.

He continued: "There is nothing new in the intention of the Kyiv regime and its Western manipulators to rehabilitate themselves for the so-called failed peace summit. We understand that these attempts will continue. Behind this is the desire to impose the 'Zelensky formula', which is a dead end, on a wide range of countries."

It will be recalled that in an interview with the BBC, Zelensky said that talks with the Russian side were possible, despite the decree in force in Ukraine prohibiting such talks. "By putting pressure on Russia, I believe it is possible to reach a diplomatic agreement. I think the power of diplomacy can help," said the Ukrainian president.

On July 15, Zelensky also said that Russian representatives should take part in an upcoming peace conference in Ukraine.