Agriculture Minister criticizes "green radicals" and wants to reduce bureaucracy in the sector

For the Minister of Agriculture, this project will bring "competitiveness" to the region and will "help" territorial cohesion and sustainability.

The Minister of Agriculture today criticized the "green radicals" who are demonstrating against the construction of dams and warned that it is necessary to simplify projects related to the sector and end the existing bureaucracy.

"What we then have to do is another job, which is simplification, which is to do away with bureaucracy, I know that in this country there are a lot of people who are paid to create problems, in essence, and not to solve them, but this is something that has to end," said José Manuel Fernandes.

The government official, who was speaking at the signing ceremony for the contract to build the irrigation network for the Xévora hydro-agricultural scheme, in Campo Maior, in the district of Portalegre, gave as an example the length of time it often takes to obtain, for example, an environmental impact statement.

"An environmental impact declaration can't take five years, it's a huge loss for that to happen. Fortunately, we have a prime minister who not only considers agriculture to be strategic and structuring, but also has this goal of simplification, this goal of speeding up processes," he stressed.

"Water is a priority for agriculture, I'm a little confused by the fact that there are, for example, radicals, as I call them, green radicals, who are against building dams, against storing water, that would be promoting the desert in a number of places, it would be against the environment," he added.

Later, speaking to journalists, José Manuel Fernandes stressed that agriculture "is not the enemy" of the environment and that dams help biodiversity, the environment and the fight against climate change.

"There are those who want to eliminate dams, which would be a disaster, leading not only to the abandonment of land but also to increased drought and environmental problems," he lamented.

The government is going ahead with the construction of the irrigation network for the Xévora hydro-agricultural scheme, starting at the Abrilongo dam, in an investment that could exceed 25 million euros.

The investment, financed by the Rural Development Program (PDR) 2020, will have to be physically and financially completed by the end of 2025, followed by another phase of the project, which includes the construction of the irrigation pumping station and the reservoir, by 2026.

The project, at this stage, has an investment of more than 17 million euros and will benefit an area of 1,560 hectares, with a pipe network length of 44 kilometers.

For the Minister of Agriculture, this project will bring "competitiveness" to the region and will "help" territorial cohesion and sustainability.

During the ceremony, the president of the Xévora Beneficiaries Association, Luís Minas, explained that the association "has to be a partner" in this project, recalling that it was the beneficiaries who bore the costs of the environmental impact study project.

Also present at the ceremony, the mayor of Campo Maior, Luis Rosinha, said that this was "a very important day" for the municipality, as it was a project that had been "much desired" by the entire population.