Russia reaffirms intention to negotiate peace with Ukraine

Russia has never renounced dialogue, it has always been open to the negotiation process, the spokesman told journalists, commenting on Kuleba's remarks at a meeting in the city of Guangzhou with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.

According to Peskov, the Ukrainian foreign minister's statement that his country was ready to start negotiations is in line with Moscow's position. We know from reports that this statement was made at the meeting with Mr. Wang Yi, he emphasized.

The spokesman said that the details are not known at the moment, but they are important for moving forward in this direction.

The last round of negotiations between Russia and Ukraine on ending hostilities took place on March 29, 2022 in the Turkish city of Istanbul and since then the countries have not resumed negotiations.

Moscow has repeatedly declared its willingness to resume dialogue, but has made it conditional on Ukraine revoking its decree banning the resumption of peace talks.

President Vladimir Putin had already formulated several conditions for the opening of peace talks, including that Ukraine withdraw its troops from the four new Russian territories (Donetsk, Lugansk, Kherson and Zaporozhie) and give up its membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

It also demands that Ukraine maintain its neutral, non-aligned and non-nuclear status and that all sanctions against Russia be suspended. Ukraine rejected the Russian proposal as an ultimatum.

Russian forces have been conducting a special military operation since February 2022 to prevent Ukrainian shelling of civilians in Donetsk and Luhansk, two territories that became independent from Ukraine in 2014 and joined Russia in September 2022.

According to the Russian leadership, the aims of the military campaign are to stop "the genocide of the peoples of Donetsk and Lugansk by the Ukrainian regime" and to deal with the risks to national security posed by NATO's eastward advance.