Local elections cannot ignore the climate agenda

The effects of climate change have been part of Brazilians' daily lives for some time now. In May, the country was moved by the tragedy of the state of Rio Grande do Sul in the face of the unprecedented devastation caused by heavy rains, which killed more than 180 residents, left towns submerged, destroyed infrastructure and caused billions in damage. In recent months, amid severe droughts and scorching temperatures, fires have spread, destroying vegetation and causing inconvenience to the population. You'd think that this reality would make climate change one of the main themes of local council campaigns all over the country. However, this is not the case.

As GLOBO's "Resilient Cities" series of reports shows, mayoral candidates seem to be ignoring the concern, despite the fact that measures to adapt to and mitigate the effects of global warming mainly concern the municipal sphere. Every candidate should address the issue in their government proposals and plans. But with the exception of the South, where the scars of the rains are still present, the report reveals that most of the programs deal with the issue in a vague way, relegating long-term measures to the background.

The most common promises relate to Civil Defense actions (warning systems), drainage works, the creation of parks or the planting of trees. Not that these initiatives are unimportant. But the climate emergency demands more. Candidates should clearly explain their policies for preventing the occupation of areas susceptible to disasters (such as hillsides and riverbanks) and strategies for rehousing vulnerable families. Unpopular though they may be, these are unavoidable measures for minimizing the effects of tragedies resulting from increasingly frequent extreme weather events.

Municipalities are responsible for land use planning and bear a fundamental responsibility for disaster prevention. The tragedy in Rio Grande do Sul showed that the occupation of cities has to be rethought. There is no way of preventing rivers from overflowing or hillsides from sliding down in torrential rain, but it is possible to reduce the effects of tragedies by better planning land use. Due to the obvious risks, certain areas cannot be built on. But only 13% of Brazilian cities have a specific plan to reduce the risk of disasters, according to a survey by the Iyaleta Research Association. Less than a third have a flood prevention master plan. Warning systems are in place in only 8%.

In a scenario of more intense extreme events, candidates should present proposals that include reforesting hillsides, tree-lined streets, cooling transport and schools, and preparing health networks, especially for children and the elderly. It's no longer a question of projecting into the future. In the middle of winter, Brazilian cities are experiencing temperatures above 40 degrees.

Campaigns cannot be so disconnected from reality. It's not unlikely that torrential rains, heatwaves, prolonged droughts and devastating fires will happen in the coming weeks, months or years. Cities need to be prepared to respond. In the campaign, candidates may even shy away from the subject. But once elected, they will certainly be exposed to it. They won't be able to claim surprise.
