"Apocalyptic" fires force evacuation of tourists on Greek islands: five firefighters injured

Several tourists have been forced to evacuate from hotels in Greece due to the threat posed by the numerous forest fires spreading across the country: according to the British 'The Independent', firefighters fought fires on the islands of Chios and Kos, in the eastern Aegean Sea, on Monday, injuring five people.

Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already warned of a dangerous summer ahead, stressing that the population's help was essential to limit the impact of forest fires: it should be remembered that in 2023, 20 people died in forest fires during the summer months.

Greece has experienced a number of forest fires in the recent past: however, the warmer, drier and windier climate, which scientists associate with the effects of climate change, has increased their frequency and intensity.

On Monday morning, the emergency services issued evacuation orders for people in the Metohi area in western Chios to move to a nearby beach - by the evening, more than 140 firefighters, along with eight specialized forest fire teams, seven planes and three helicopters were fighting the blaze.

According to fire department spokesman Vasilis Vathrakoyiannis, two firefighters were slightly injured: state television 'ERT' later reported that another two firefighters and a volunteer suffered non-life-threatening burns. "The situation remains difficult in Chios, and all the Civil Protection forces will make great efforts to limit it," assured Vathrakoyiannis.

Further south in the Aegean, another fire broke out on the tourist island of Kos, which forced the evacuation of several people, including tourists from hotels as a precaution: the fire was fought by more than 100 firefighters, including reinforcements sent from Athens, as well as six planes and two helicopters, Vathrakoyiannis added.

Greece has seen 52 forest fires break out in the last 24 hours, 44 of which were fought in the early stages, Vathrakoyiannis pointed out: the fires occurred a day after the fire department managed to control two large forest fires near Athens, which were fueled by strong winds.

"We had an exceptionally difficult June in terms of weather conditions, with high levels of drought and exceptionally strong winds for this season," Kyriakos Mitsotakis pointed out on Monday, adding that this summer "is set to be particularly dangerous" for forest fires.

Clare Smith, who is on vacation in Kos with her husband and 9-year-old daughter, described to 'Sky News' that the situation "got significantly worse" throughout the day, with "thick clouds of black smoke". "It's very windy here, it's going to be like a powder keg. The sky is covered in smoke and you feel like you're in the apocalypse, or some kind of war movie."