Amazon will recover slowly due to climatic phenomena

The general coordinator of Earth Sciences at the National Institute for Space Research (INPE), Gilvan Sampaio, says that the southwest of the Amazon will receive rain again from November, but the precipitation will be lower than average and the recovery will possibly be slow.

"The rain deficit was very large, it will still be reflected in November and it will recover little by little," he said.

Due to the influence of El Niño, he said, rainfall will be above average in the South and, combined with the temperature anomaly in the North Atlantic, rainfall volumes will be below average in the northern region of Brazil over the coming months.

He says that for Rondonia, the outlook is for below-average rainfall. "This area is home to the Madeira river basin, which makes an important contribution to the Amazon river," he explained.

The Madeira is the main tributary of the Amazon. Natural flows in Porto Velho (RO) are 51% below average in October.

Researcher sees link between Rio Negro drought and global warming

The data is contained in maps from the joint bulletin issued by INPE, the National Meteorological Institute (INMET) and Funceme.

Last Friday (27), the director-general of INPE, Clézio De Nardin, explained the situation to senators at a session dedicated to debating the effects of climate phenomena such as El Niño.

"There's a very serious drought in the west of the Amazon and it's going to spread to the east. Today in Manaus and it's going to Pará. It's serious," he warned.

He explained that the data indicates that the Northeast will suffer from drought from February, March and April.

"Get ready! The Northeast is going to suffer from much lower than average rainfall. This is already motivating organizations to take appropriate preventive action, especially social action," he warned.

INPE data indicates the highest temperature increase ever recorded in the North Atlantic, which inhibits the growth of transpiration in the Amazon.

"The North Atlantic temperature growth cycle carries the currents and when it reaches the Amazon it forces the air current downwards, preventing clouds from forming, preventing rainfall and this causes droughts," he explained.

Added to this are the El Niño currents. As part of the Pacific heats up, the ocean winds that flow east-west over the Andes form a kind of barrier over Brazilian territory, causing cold fronts to circulate more slowly over the southern region.

"The cold currents enter the southern region very slowly, causing extreme and well below average rainfall in the rest of the country," he said.

The director highlighted the investment of around 32.7 million euros by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI) to renew INPE's supercomputing infrastructure.

The funds from the National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development (FNDCT) will be used to purchase a new supercomputer, install a photovoltaic plant to supply the machine's energy needs and develop Monan - the Model for Forecasting the Oceans, Continental Surfaces and Atmosphere.

This is a unique data modeling system that receives information from satellites, radar data and other measurement systems to make forecasts of weather, ocean behavior and winds, among other things.

