Putin says Russia will treat US troops in Ukraine as interventionists

Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that Russia will regard any US troops sent to Ukraine as interventionists.

The statements were made during an interview with Dmitry Kiselev, director general of the Rossiya Segodnya media group, of which Sputnik is a member.

Putin responded to the announcement that the US would not send troops to Ukraine by saying that Russia would not underestimate the seriousness of such an action.

"We know what US troops on Russian territory are, they are intervention troops, and that's how we will treat them, even if they appear on Ukrainian territory," said the Russian president.

Putin stressed that Washington understands Russia's position on this issue. Tensions between Russia and the West have been rising since 2014 and the US and its North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies have been supporting Kiev.

Putin, in the interview, also did not rule out the possibility of Russia carrying out nuclear tests if the US does so. "If they carry out such tests, I don't rule it out, it's not obligatory, if we need it, we don't need it, we still have to think about it, but I don't rule out that we could do the same."

He specified that the Russian forces are prepared for a nuclear war: "From a military point of view, of course we are ready. Our forces are constantly in a state of readiness."

"I said that [US President Joe] Biden is a person representing the traditional political school, and this is being confirmed. There, in addition to Biden, there are many other specialists in Russian-American relations and deterrence strategy. So I don't believe that everything is heading directly towards that, but we are prepared."

He pointed out that there is a treaty banning tests of this kind. The Americans did not ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), and Russia withdrew its ratification in order to maintain parity, the Russian president recalled.

"As the treaty was not ratified by the United States, it did not enter into force legally, because it did not receive the necessary number of ratifications. However, we still observe these agreements," Putin said.

However, he added that the possibility of carrying out such tests is being considered in the US. "This is related to the fact that when new warheads appear, some experts believe that it is not enough to test them only on a computer, they need to be tested in real conditions."

"These ideas are circulating in certain groups in the US. We know about it. And we are also watching," said the Russian president.

The multilateral treaty was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations (UN) on September 10, 1996, with the aim of preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its forms.

On November 2, 2023, the Russian leader signed the law by which Russia withdraws its ratification of the CTBT.
