Climate change? A lie of socialism, says President-elect of Argentina

Javier Milei believes in property rights and the privatization of natural resources to solve environmental problems. Why are whales endangered and chickens not?

Global warming? "Nothing, it's another of socialism's lies. There's a whole agenda of cultural Marxism," said Javier Milei, the anarcho-capitalist President-elect of Argentina, with a hairstyle reminiscent of an out-of-fashion footballer. He doesn't believe in climate change, wants to do away with the Ministry of the Environment (among several others), privatize the Ministry of Science and believes in private property as a way of regulating pollution.

Climate change is not the fault of human beings, he said, against all scientific evidence. "The world has had other peaks of high temperatures. It's a cyclical behavior, independent of the existence of man. Therefore, all these policies that blame humans for climate change are false and only serve to raise money to finance lazy socialists who write shoddy documents," he said in the second debate with Sergio Massa, the losing candidate.
s
Milei's speech in which he said that "a company can contaminate a river however it wants" became famous. Pause: "And? Where is the damage?" The problem, said the far-right politician, is that property rights are poorly defined.

An economist, former rock singer and former soccer goalkeeper, among other colorful biographical data, Javier Milei defines himself as a libertarian who believes in defining property rights to solve possible environmental problems.

"A company can contaminate a river however it wants, and you know why? Because this is a society in which there is a lot of water and the price of water is zero. Consequently, who is going to claim ownership of that river? Nobody, because they can't make money," he said. Now, if someone owns the water in that river, they'll be interested in negotiating with those who pollute it. "They'll see how the pollution ends up," said Milei.

These policies that blame humans for climate change are false and only serve to raise money to finance lazy socialists who write shoddy documents

His main advisor, Alberto Benegas Lynch, illustrated the idea of widespread privatization of state resources and assets by using whales. Why are whales on the verge of extinction, while chickens and cows are not? The difference lies in the fence that protects them. Where there is an owner, there is economic utility, and this protects the fauna," he said, suggesting privatizing the sea.

