Climate change could kill up to 14.5 million people by 2050

Established in Portugal in 1998, this day draws attention to the preservation of natural heritage, which is essential for people's well-being and for the sustainability of economies.

Prepared by the American management consulting firm OIiver Wyman, in collaboration with the World Economic Forum (WEF), the study "Assessing the impact of climate change on human health" analyzes the consequences of the gradual increase in the planet's average temperature on public health.

"Floods represent the greatest risk of mortality, with an estimated 8.5 million deaths by 2050, followed by droughts (3.2 million) and heat waves (1.6 million)," says a press release from the report, which estimates that "the total costs for health systems to treat diseases caused by climate change will exceed one billion euros" in the same year.

In addition to these, the study analyzes the negative effects on health of tropical storms, forest fires and rising sea levels, indicating that nearly 70% of these deaths will occur in high-risk regions, especially in Southeast Asia.

Asia is the region where the health impact of climate change is expected to be greatest, with "economic losses of around 3.2 trillion euros" being calculated.

In terms of economic losses, it is followed by Europe (2.3 billion), South America (1.9 billion) and Africa (1.8 billion euros).

Due to a lack of resources and essential medical equipment, as well as inadequate infrastructure, the African continent "is more vulnerable to the health impacts of climate change than other regions".

The study by Marsh McLennan Group's strategic consultancy "presents emission reduction strategies to avoid economic losses of up to 11.5 trillion euros by 2050", considering that the role of the private sector is crucial and "should be encouraged by governments".

In terms of direct economic incentives, measures such as "tax credits, subsidies or research grants to support initiatives aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change" are mentioned, and the creation of regulations "to stimulate innovation" is also proposed.

"The public sector has another essential role to play in the resilience of health systems to the effects of climate and weather changes, such as infrastructure capacity building."
