Green eye paint, or the courage to tell the truth

In recent years, with the recognition of climate change as a global phenomenon, a form of protest has spread among young 'climate activists'. They are part of the anti-establishment vanguard parties who, believing they are saving the world from the apocalypse, think they are above the law.

The protests of these activists or radicals take various forms.

All over the world, they glue themselves to works of art to draw attention to their causes, usually forgetting that those works of art represent the best that the human spirit has produced over thousands of years of existence.

Another form of protest they find is sticking themselves to the ground in the most diverse places, occupying a space that isn't theirs, believing that they can freely impose themselves on others.

We've had a few episodes like this around here, some of them involving the pretense of believing that they are the only ones who care about the future of the planet and humanity, claiming to represent the vanguard of contemporary society.

They interrupted a private event attended by the Minister of the Economy.

They invaded and glued themselves to the floor of the Ministry of Economy.

They blocked access to the building where the Council of Ministers was due to meet.

In another case, the leader of JS de Oeiras, after insulting the Municipal Executive at a session of the Oeiras Municipal Assembly, addressed the Executive bench by throwing a 10 euro note, in order to reinforce the municipal budget in the fight against climate change.

This week, those who hold the truth and are above good and evil, invaded a CNN conference where the Minister for the Environment was present, attacking the minister with bags of green paint, protesting against the minister's presence at an event supported by companies in the energy sector.

All this is possible and all this is tolerated because the poor 'young free radicals' are drawing attention to a greater cause, and because they want to save humanity from itself.

In reality, all this is tolerated because the vast majority of the political class, as well as other institutions, live in a state of cowardly surrender to political correctness. Politicians are insulted or the object of insinuations and are afraid to react. Fear is a decision-maker's worst advisor.

Governments, and the President of the Republic, have been particularly responsible for installing this state of affairs. Portugal is a country absolutely conditioned by these groups, and by the hand that cradles them.

A substantial part of the blocking of national decisions is imposed by public conditioning (with strong support from the news media), and this conditioning afflicts our society with fear. Yesterday it was made public that 40% of judges admit to being conditioned by the media. How many of the remaining 60% are still not telling the truth?

By reacting mildly to these arrogant protests, we are tolerating the intolerable and recognizing legitimacy where it doesn't exist. In a free society there are no vanguards, nor does any group have moral superiority over others. It is regrettable that, today, saying so is an act of courage