Plankton observation: why is it so important for predicting the next mass extinction?


What if we closely observed the movements of plankton in the oceans? No, this is not a far-fetched suggestion to occupy your afternoons, but a very serious study with surprising results carried out by a team of researchers from the Universities of Bristol (UK), Harvard, Texas (USA) and Victoria (Australia), published in the journal Nature.

What happened 53 million years ago?

These scientists have discovered that, around 50 million years ago (more precisely between 53 and 49 million years ago), almost all the marine plankton, i.e. all the aquatic plants and animals that drift with the currents, moved to higher latitudes, between the Antarctic Circle and the South Pole.

This surprising change preceded a mass extinction of marine species in the ocean by several million years. What's even more worrying is that during this Eocene period, between 53 and 49 million years ago, there was a "climatic optimum", i.e. a period of "persistently high" global temperatures that is curiously reminiscent of the present day.

Climatologists are inevitably very concerned, since this "Eocene climate optimum" is close to the most pessimistic global warming scenarios currently being studied. It's clear that plankton must be closely scrutinized at this time, as the slightest change could mean the same disastrous scenario as the Eocene, with a mass extinction of species.

An "early warning system"

Of course, the authors of the study explain that the past is never the mirror of the future and that this is just a correlation between the movement of plankton and the disappearance of species, not in any way a causal relationship. However, they believe that plankton could act as a warning before a supposed wave of extinction of larger marine species.

The study's co-author, Dr. Adam Woodhouse (Bristol), nevertheless describes the result as "exciting", adding that the observation of plankton could constitute an "early warning system" to predict the extinction of life in the oceans.

In fact, by applying their computer model to the archives, his team revealed that, since the disappearance of the dinosaurs, changes in the plankton have often preceded the extinction of certain organisms.