Little hope of justice on the 10th anniversary of the downing of flight MH17 in Ukraine

Ten years after the crash of flight MH17 over Ukraine, the relatives of the victims have little hope of seeing those responsible brought to justice.

Hundreds of relatives of the 298 victims took part in a tribute this Wednesday (17) near Amsterdam-Schiphol airport, from where the plane took off on July 17, 2014, bound for Kuala Lumpur.

Hours later, the Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 was shot down by a Russian-made missile in an area of Ukraine controlled by pro-Russia separatists. Everyone on board died.

During the ceremony, the names of all the victims were read aloud, the majority from the Netherlands (196), but also many from Malaysia (43) and Australia (38).

The Dutch courts sentenced three men to life imprisonment in 2022 for their role in the disaster, including two Russians, but Moscow has refused to extradite any suspects.

Last year, international investigators suspended their work after concluding that there was insufficient evidence to pursue the suspects involved.

"I don't think those responsible will do the time," Evert van Zijtveld, who lost his daughter Frédérique, 19, his son Robert-Jan, 18, and his parents-in-law, told AFP.

Dutch television broadcast the ceremony live and the national flag was flown at half-mast in many municipalities across the country.

The Australian government, at a ceremony in Parliament with relatives of the victims, said it would not give up "its commitment to hold Russia accountable".

"I recommit myself to our collective search for truth, justice and accountability for the atrocities committed on July 17, 2014," said Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong.

- "Hard to believe" -

The plane crashed in the early stages of the conflict between the Ukrainian government and pro-Russian separatists in the east of the country, during which Moscow took control of the Crimean peninsula.

In November 2022, a Dutch court found Russians Igor Guirkin and Sergei Dubinski and Ukrainian Leonid Kharchenko "guilty" of intentional homicide and sentenced them to life imprisonment.

The magistrates found that they were responsible for transporting the missile that brought down the plane from a base in Russia to the launch site, although they were not charged with firing it.

The three men refused to take part in the court proceedings in the Netherlands, which convicted them in absentia, and denied any responsibility. A fourth suspect, Russian Oleg Pulatov, was acquitted.

International investigators have concluded that there are "strong indications" that Russian President Vladimir Putin approved the supply of the missile that brought down the aircraft.

Moscow denies any involvement and has vehemently rejected the verdict of the 2022 court as "political" and "scandalous".

The European Union urged Moscow on Tuesday to "accept its responsibility for this tragedy and to cooperate fully in the service of justice".

The evidence presented during the trial "clearly shows that the BUK surface-to-air missile system used to shoot down flight MH17 undoubtedly belonged to the armed forces of the Russian Federation," said EU diplomacy chief Josep Borrell.

Moscow has refused to extradite the suspects, claiming it would be against its laws.

"The invasion of Ukraine and the escalation of the war make it really hard to believe that one of them will be arrested any time soon," said Evert van Zijtveld.
