Heat kills too many Portuguese. Housing code should change

More than 600 deaths a year: "The summer plan should have been created in January and it doesn't exist, as well as the contingency plan."

Portugal is one of the countries with the highest excess mortality due to the heat. It exceeded 600 deaths a year between 1990 and 2019.

Carlos Cortes, president of the Portuguese Medical Association, believes that prevention could be more effective: "The summer plan should have been created in January and it doesn't exist, as well as the contingency plan, which should have been known in April. They are essential for the prevention of deaths associated with excessive heat and, every year, this is never done."

"There is a lack of prevention measures and information campaigns for the population. The sensation of thirst is lost with age and older people have to force themselves to drink at times of greater heat."

He told Diário de Notícias that the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) is responsible for creating prevention plans.

Carlos Cortes warns that heatwaves have been increasing year on year, "with an ever-longer summer period".

"The most vulnerable groups, such as children, the elderly and people with chronic pathologies that can decompensate, must implement certain measures and there is a lack of literacy in this area. Campaigns should have been stepped up," he adds.

Excessive heat has several disadvantages. One of them is the change in our ecosystem: "There are diseases that were typical of Africa that are now present in southern Europe. The diseases we have are not the same because viruses and bacteria have a warmer environment and develop differently compared to how they do in a temperate climate."

Precisely in this context, doctor Luís Cadinha recalls that the mosquitoes that carry Zika or dengue have stopped arriving only "at one end of the Algarve and have spread to the whole area and have already been detected in Lisbon".

"Although the mosquito only transmits diseases when infected, we have a new population in Portugal. This change in temperature makes our country a more favorable habitat for mosquitoes," warns the public health doctor.

There are also more ticks. "Ticks are active for longer and it's not just in summer anymore - and these are the carriers of diseases that affect us. They start earlier and stop being active later. They used to be active between May and September and now they start in March and stay until November."

Luís Cadinha also warns of the greater frequency of heatwaves. As a comparison: there were only "two or three" between 2000 and 2005, and there were only three heatwaves in 2023.