Humanity suffers from 'extreme heat epidemic', warns UN official

Guterres repeated his call for humanity to fight its "dependence" on fossil fuels.

"Today, our focus is on the impact of extreme heat. But let's not forget that there are many other devastating symptoms of the climate crisis: hurricanes of unprecedented violence, floods, droughts, forest fires, rising sea levels. And the list goes on," he said.

"To tackle all these symptoms, we need to fight the disease. And the disease is the madness of burning down our only home. The disease is dependence on fossil fuels. The disease is climate inaction," he stressed, calling in particular for the G20 countries to take action.

While 2023 was the hottest year on record, 2024 could set a new record, with temperatures well above 40ºC becoming increasingly common.

In the space of a year, the 50ºC limit has been exceeded in at least ten places, from Death Valley in the United States (53.9ºC on July 7) to Agadir in Morocco, but also in China, India and Brazil.

However, intense heat, often less visible than other devastating impacts of climate change, such as storms and floods, is more deadly.

This "silent killer" was responsible for around 489,000 deaths a year between 2000 and 2019, compared to the 16,000 deaths a year caused by cyclones, according to the "Call to Action" document published this Thursday by the United Nations.

Workers exposed

Extremely high temperatures also have an economic impact. The UN estimates that the damage caused by heat stress at work will reach 2.4 trillion dollars by 2030.

According to a report by the International Labor Organization published this Thursday, more than 70% of workers were exposed to extreme heat in 2020, 8.8% more than in 2000.

"The good news is that we can save lives and limit this impact," Guterres said on Thursday.

The UN called on the world community to act first to protect "the most vulnerable", including young children, the elderly and the poorest.

In this context, early warning systems should include extreme heat, alerting populations to the arrival of heatwaves and informing them of precautions to take, the document added.

The call to action also recommends "increasing equitable access and scaling up low-carbon cooling".

This would cover investments in passive cooling systems - which include climate-sensitive urban metering, reflective surfaces and natural cooling systems, as well as the elimination of greenhouse gases used in many cooling systems.
