Putin congratulates Maduro on victory and Kremlin says it is deepening ties

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday congratulated Nicolás Maduro on his victory in the Venezuelan election, and the Kremlin said it was deepening cooperation in all areas - including sensitive ones - with Caracas.

Maduro and his opposition rival, Edmundo González, claimed victory in the presidential elections, with Washington and some other foreign governments casting doubt on the official results that gave victory to the current president.

The national electoral authority reported that Maduro won a third term with 51% of the vote.

Putin backed 61-year-old Maduro, an ally who accuses the United States and the West of fueling the war in Ukraine, saying that Moscow enjoys a strategic partnership with the South American country and that Maduro is always welcome in Russia.

"Russian-Venezuelan relations have the character of a strategic partnership," Putin said in a message to Maduro, according to the Kremlin. "I am confident that your activities as head of state will continue to contribute to their progressive development in all directions."

"This fully serves the interests of our friendly peoples and is in line with building a more just and democratic world order," Putin said. "I would like to confirm our willingness to continue our constructive joint work on topical issues on the bilateral and international agenda."

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that Washington had serious concerns that the results announced by the electoral authority did not reflect the votes of the people. The authority is supposed to be an independent body, but the opposition says it acts as an arm of the Maduro government.

But Moscow sees Venezuela as an important partner in Latin America, and the two sanctioned states have cooperated over the past two decades in areas such as oil, arms and military exercises.

When asked whether Russia would deepen cooperation with Venezuela, including in the area of defense, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, "We are developing our relations with Venezuela in all areas, including sensitive ones."

"This cooperation is in the interests of both the Venezuelan and Russian people, so we will develop our relations with Venezuela comprehensively," Peskov added.
