US and NATO have no interest in a fair resolution to the Ukraine crisis, says Moscow

For the Foreign Ministry, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the United States are focused on escalating the crisis in Ukraine, which creates strategic risks and could even lead to a confrontation between nuclear powers.

"The United States and NATO do not show the slightest interest in a fair resolution of the current conflict. They are clearly unwilling to consider Russian concerns and to work seriously on eliminating fundamental contradictions," said a statement from the portfolio.

The special military operation will be two years old in February, amid constant Ukrainian defeats and the insistence of Vladimir Zelensky's regime on continuing the fighting at any cost to the country.

"The West is focused on the escalation of the Ukrainian crisis, which now represents the main strategic risks, as such a course could lead to a direct confrontation between nuclear powers with catastrophic consequences," the ministry added.

Moscow also added that "the destructive policy of the US has led to a profound degradation of Russian-American relations and a radical change of circumstances in the area of security."

In addition, Russia has repeatedly indicated that it is willing to negotiate, while Kiev refuses to engage in dialogue. Previously, Moscow stated that there were no preconditions for the situation in Ukraine to move towards a peaceful solution, and that the priority objective was to fulfill the goals of the special operation, which at the moment are only possible militarily.

More than 600,000 people are in the combat zone

More than 600,000 Russian military personnel are in the combat zone, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday.

"As for the decision to launch the special military operation, [...] there were no other considerations than one - the defense of Russia's interests. None at all. And there can be and were no other motives when addressing issues of this kind," Putin said.

He noted that Russia had tried in advance and in every possible way to build relations with Ukraine.
