Portugal must demand the release of Captain Paul Watson, the whale protector

Captain Paul Watson has been tirelessly traveling the world's seas for decades to defend whales. The founder of Sea Shepherd does nothing more than enforce the law, since whales are supposed to be protected by international law. Whaling has been officially banned since a moratorium adopted by the International Whaling Commission (IWC) came into force in 1986. The aim of this organization is to defend life at sea through a unique strategy of aggressive non-violence and intervention against illegal operations that exploit life at sea. To date, it has helped save more than 5,000 cetaceans!

Currently, only three countries are determined not to comply with the moratorium: Iceland, Norway and Japan. Japan was already condemned by the International Court of Justice in 2014 for its whaling activities, which were later concealed by false claims of scientific research. The famous captain, who is the subject of an international arrest warrant issued by Tokyo for "conspiracy to commit a collision", was arrested on July 21 by the Danish authorities while his boat was making a discreet stopover in Greenland.

Since then, international public opinion has mobilized to demand Paul Watson's release, notably through a petition launched by journalist Hugo Clément, which has over 700,000 signatures. French President Emmanuel Macron has already intervened with the Danish authorities to try to prevent his extradition to Japan.

Whaling, as well as the persecution of activists who protect whales, is increasingly incomprehensible, since we are dealing with an activity that is not only illegal, but also goes far beyond the protection of a species. Today we know that whales play a fundamental role in mitigating climate change. Scientists have recently discovered that whales can capture significant amounts of carbon from the atmosphere. Estimates indicate that the capacity of one whale to capture carbon from the atmosphere is equal to that of thousands of trees. In 2019, the International Monetary Fund itself published a study in which the value of the services provided by a whale (which includes capturing carbon dioxide) "is more than 2 million dollars and easily more than a billion dollars for the current population of large whales."

Whales are an essential part of a solution to the climate crisis. Carbon dioxide capture is around 30 to 40 times more efficient in the marine environment, in which whales play a key role. For this reason, the undersigned call on the Portuguese government to join the other governments that have already taken up this cause, taking all necessary steps to ensure that the Danish government does not extradite Captain Paul Watson and also calling on the Japanese authorities to comply with international law.