COP28: Brazil resumes central role in climate negotiations, but Congress approves absurd coal subsidy

Brazil is an environmental powerhouse. Period. It's big, it has a voice, it has the largest rainforest on the planet, it has an efficient diplomacy that has already found several solutions to concrete problems. This year, the country is back at the table at COP28, after four tragic years of denialism, with data on the reduction of emissions and deforestation.

Brazil at COP28: Lula and Marina with ideas and solutions

Environment and health: Approval of the 'Poison Bill' goes against new trends and comes at the worst time

I spoke to Minister Marina Silva this morning, who is already in Dubai for the conference, and she told me that Brazil will be presenting the new financing mechanism for forest countries tomorrow.

It's a new track, in addition to the existing ones that could flourish in the negotiations over the next few days, such as the 91.4 billion euros a year for mitigation and adaptation, which, in the jargon of the COPs, means that rich, older industrialized countries will finance policies to reduce the impacts of climate change and also adaptation to irreversible changes in developing nations.

There is another track, which is the loss and damage agreement. The minister, speaking there today, said that the agreement is being finalized to make compensation for vulnerable countries concrete.

COP28: Survey shows workers would like to contribute to sustainability, but are unaware of companies' strategy

The problem is that here in Brazil, Congress is sending a completely opposite signal to the agenda presented by Brazil at COP28. By approving a coal subsidy, what Congress is doing is subverting the meaning of the green agenda, corrupting the meaning of the wind law to serve the lobbies and transferring the cost of this contradiction to you, the reader. Subsidizing coal also means sending this cost, estimated at 4.6 billion euros a year, to your electricity bill.

There is contradiction in Dubai too, of course. There is an expectation of progress on the climate change agenda at COP28 despite the fact that it is being held in the United Arab Emirates, the heart of oil, which is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, hence a large part of the problem.

Minister Marina Silva told me that the big victory would be to come out of the conference with a commitment to reduce the use of fossil fuels, which will be challenging since the president of COP28, Sultan al-Jaber, also runs the local oil company.

Contradictions: On his way to COP, Lula goes to the cradle of oil and tyranny in the Middle East

This meeting is expected to be the first assessment of the commitments and national targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions set out in the Paris Agreement. But it will be in Brazil, at COP30, ten years after the agreement was signed in the French capital, that the great agreement and the re-establishment of targets will take place.

Now here's a detail: at COP28 everyone is looking ahead to COP30 in Belém. But where will COP29 be? There's an impasse. It has to be in a European country, but Russia's war against Ukraine has scuppered that choice.
