Water shortages in ES: drought can no longer take anyone by surprise

From 2015 to 2017, the water crisis in Espírito Santo required tough measures, such as a ban on irrigating plantations during the day in municipalities with a critical situation, with economic impacts on the agricultural sector. Industries also committed to reducing consumption. The population had to commit to a culture of rationing.

The state government then began a program to build multiple-use dams. The Reis Magos supply system, in Serra, was also inaugurated in 2017, reducing the overload on the Santa Maria da Vitória system. And in 2018, the construction of the Jucu River dam between Domingos Martins and Viana was announced, with the capacity to store 23 billion liters of water: accumulating the resource in the wet season for use in the dry season, as the little ant in the fable teaches. This important project, which is progressing slowly, is included in the PAC. Its urgency is undeniable.

In this atypical month of November, with no rainfall, in which Espírito Santo is one of the states affected by the heatwave, the warning of a new water supply crisis has been raised. In the Metropolitan Area, the Jucu and Santa Maria rivers are approaching critical levels, as Leonel Ximenes reported in his column.

Cesan also reported that the rivers from which the company collects water to supply the population have had their water levels reduced by the recent drought and warned that the situation affects all 53 municipalities served by the company. In Pinheiros, in the north of the state, the water supply has been compromised in the district of São João Sobrado for 15 days, requiring the use of tanker trucks. Neighborhoods in Marataízes, on the South Coast, have also been suffering from a lack of water since last week.

As I said before, this is still just an alert, which already requires the government to prepare contingency actions. No government has the ability to control when it rains or when it shines, but the experience of previous critical scenarios should teach us what we need to do to avoid or deal with future supply crises. Without crossing our arms.

Periods of drought, like periods of rain, are cyclical and unpredictable, but will become increasingly common with climate change. Governor Renato Casagrande chairs the Green Brazil Consortium, created in 2021 to develop coordinated actions between federal entities, obtaining external financial resources and looking for good practices, to mitigate the effects of climate change in the country.

Investment is needed not only in large-scale projects, but also in less grandiose rainwater harvesting projects, as well as projects for the industrial reuse of water and the conservation and recovery of riparian forests, which are responsible for the health of rivers.

Amid warnings of global climate change, we need to prepare for what lies ahead, with planning that integrates the municipal, state and federal spheres. We already have enough baggage to learn how to deal with extreme weather events and reduce the damage. It's a path of no return.