Study concludes that biodiversity recovery in European rivers stalled in the 2010s

An international study with the participation of Maria João Feio and Manuel Graça, researchers from the Center for Marine and Environmental Sciences (MARE) of the Faculty of Science and Technology of the University of Coimbra (FCTUC), published in the journal Nature, concluded that, despite the positive trends of the 1990s, the recovery of river biodiversity has stalled since 2010.

In Europe, over the last three decades, and especially since the publication of the Water Framework Directive in 2000, various mitigation measures have been implemented to combat the degradation of rivers and their ecosystems. However, the number of factors threatening these ecosystems continues to increase worldwide.

Therefore, "this study aimed to analyze whether, over the last few decades, there has actually been a recovery in the aquatic biodiversity of river systems over time, as a result of the mitigation measures implemented in Europe, and what factors have determined this," explains Maria João Feio, adding that it was possible to conclude "that there has actually been a small increase in the number of species (0.73% per year), functional richness (2.4% per year) and abundance (1.7% per year) in aquatic macroinvertebrate communities."

However, continues the researcher, "despite these positive trends, the number of species still decreased in 30% of the sites. The riverine ecosystems where there was the least recovery were those located downstream of dams, in urban areas and on agricultural land. In addition, invertebrate communities located in areas with faster rates of warming recovered less, which shows the impacts of climate change, namely the effect of rising temperatures," she warns.

According to the experts, the increases in biodiversity occurred mainly before the 2010s and have since stagnated. The gains in biodiversity in the 1990s and 2000s reflect the improvement in the physical and chemical quality of water, due to the implementation of more effective treatment systems and ecological rehabilitation or restoration projects. However, the slowdown in the recovery of riverine biodiversity in the 2010s shows that the current measures are not sufficient, and are translating less and less into positive results in the recovery of biodiversity.

This stagnation, says the researcher, "has occurred because new threats have also emerged, namely emerging pollutants such as pharmaceuticals and microplastics, climate change and invasive species. In fact, the number of non-native species (found in 69% of the sites analyzed) has been increasing sharply (4% per year)," she says.

Given these results, the researchers consider it "urgent to continue ecological restoration based on renaturalization and recovery of species, not merely aesthetic, or focused on runoff, or the removal of nutrients from the water, but also new planning focused on new impacts, such as emerging pollutants, climate change and invasive species. In addition, the research also shows the importance of continuing the ecological monitoring of rivers so that studies can be carried out that address temporal evolutions," they conclude.

This research, which involved 96 European researchers from 70 institutions, was coordinated by researchers from the Senckenberg Research Institute and the Natural History Museum Frankfurt, Germany.