Environmental taxes on airline tickets will be the norm

When you buy a plane ticket, do you choose to pay extra to offset carbon emissions? If the answer is "no", you're not alone. Voluntary adherence to offsetting schemes may be lower than 3% of people.

Instead, Lufthansa will introduce a mandatory "environmental cost surcharge" on flights from the EU, the UK, Norway or Switzerland from the beginning of 2025.

This will add up to 72 euros to a long-haul first class ticket. On short and medium-haul flights, it will be closer to 1 euro to 7 euros.

The German airline will probably not be alone. Mandatory green surcharges are expected to be adopted by traditional airlines in particular.

A series of environmental regulations are to blame, says Lufthansa. It cites EU requirements for aviation fuel to include a blend of at least 2% sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) from next year, as well as changes to emissions trading schemes (ETS) in Europe.

Air France-KLM laid the foundations in 2022 by imposing a "SAF contribution levy", charged at a lower level.

Each regulatory change in itself is not exorbitant. In fact, SAF, produced from a variety of materials including recycled cooking oil, is expected to cost at least twice the long-term historical price of kerosene by 2050, according to a recent report by LEK Consulting.

But assuming Lufthansa's 2025 fuel bill remains close to the 8.3 billion euros it forecasts for 2024, a quick calculation suggests that compliance with the EU's 2025 blending rules could cost an extra 17 million euros. The required blending levels will increase again in 2030 and 2035.

Changes to the EU's ETS scheme and similar programs elsewhere will be more expensive. Currently, polluters receive some free allowances, but they are being reduced.

The impact on traditional airlines will be greater, argues Goodbody analyst Dudley Shanley, as they are historically bigger emitters and tend to have less efficient fleets.

This year, Lufthansa expects to receive free emission certificates for around 2.8 million tons of CO₂, compared to 3.8 million tons in 2023, according to its latest annual report.

This reduction could cost 65 million euros, based on BloombergNEF's forecast for an average price of 65 euros per ton of allowable EU emissions this year. It is expected to rise to 80 euros/t in 2025.

In good times, these costs could be absorbed. Lufthansa is expected to make a net profit in 2025 of almost 1.8 billion euros, according to figures from Visible Alpha.

However, traditional airlines are fighting a perpetual war to reduce the large cost gap with their low-cost competitors.

Passengers may complain, but mandatory environmental baggage fees - at least among the major airlines - could become the norm.
