This isn't activism: it's radicalism and it's undignified

In an evolved and democratized society, the end does not justify the means. In order to defend the idea and fight the cause, it is no longer acceptable to society when dialogue is not used in a civilized way. If you resort to aggression, whatever the modus operandi, you are clearly disrespecting the good practices that activism should implement, with the objective consequence that the struggle and the fight for the idea will not be understood, and for that very reason will not have the necessary force that it should.

The recent events that led to the throwing of green ink at Minister Duarte Cordeiro have, in my view, a simple reason. Someone is gradually feeding a group by radicalizing the issue of climate change.

With dignity, Duarte Cordeiro has continued his work, not dwelling on the controversy, and saying that he understands the situation and others from the recent past.

Activism, as we have seen it, with ramifications for the most radical policies, lost out across the board. The debate has given way to the most original ways of showing themselves, but with the sad premise of harming others.

Still very much on everyone's mind, and in some people's wallets, is the fashion for puncturing tires on specific brand cars just because.

This is nothing. This is hitting the bottom of everything that is civilization and a society that wants to be modern in the debate of ideas.

We will never evolve if activism in Portugal continues to provide us with these sad spectacles that only diminish the power of dialogue in the search for solutions and points of convergence.

The "Student Climate Strike" group, which has committed a public crime with its act, which for that reason does not require a complaint, must realize that it is losing the fight socially, not because of the idea it defends, but because of the way it is defended, and we must all show our indignation to this group and so many others. No matter how respectable their struggle and their conviction may be from an ideological point of view, everything takes on a different look when they take to aggression, because it is totally reprehensible.

There is an urgent need to change the way activist groups think and act. Their notorious "dangerousness" shouldn't be the motto, but unfortunately that's how they show themselves. The right to express oneself is inalienable and intrinsic to human nature, but none of this can be confused with what we are witnessing. With this episode, which affected Minister Duarte Cordeiro - lucky that the ink didn't hit him in the eye - it's time to tell all activists to change. Be intelligent in your actions, be dignified in fighting for your causes and stop the violence once and for all. Yes, because this is violence we're talking about and its practice is counterproductive in our democratic rule of law.

This is not how we have evolved, nor is it the way to act, but neither will Portuguese society have any respect for you. On the contrary.