Tragedy in RS exposes urgency of mitigating climate change

A new storm is bearing down on Rio Grande do Sul, with unprecedented amounts of rainfall. In two days, it rained more than three times the average for the month of May. The frequency of meteorological disasters requires the authorities to change the way they deal with them.

This is the fifth climatic scourge to hit the Gauchos in less than a year. In June 2023, a cyclone swept through the state; from July to December, storms affected the lives of millions of people.

The state government has now declared a public calamity. By Friday morning (3), 351,600 people and 235 municipalities had been affected. At the end of the afternoon, there were 39 dead.

The support of the federal government is essential, and it has already announced the deployment of 100 National Force agents and 31 transport vehicles.

But given the scale of the tragedy, which has left thousands without homes and means of subsistence, as well as the loss of loved ones, any action seems insufficient to alleviate such suffering.

It seems clear that there is something abnormal going on and that global warming is at the root of it. Although extreme events can result from the natural variation of the climate, this is looking increasingly unlikely.

Public authorities therefore need to prepare for the worst-case scenarios. Nothing that is happening now was not predicted by science.

There is still an urgent need to mitigate global warming by cutting greenhouse gas emissions more drastically and decisively than has been done so far - but, in reality, they are still on the rise around the world.

In the short and medium term, adapting to climate change should already be a priority for managers.

The federal government, states and municipalities need to create integrated action plans to mitigate the effects of warming and the fatalities of the events generated, in sectors such as forestry legislation, since green areas are essential for containing floods, and basic sanitation, which is shameful in Brazil.

If there are global obstacles to reducing and cutting carbon emissions, local authorities must take precautions to ensure that extreme events do not become catastrophic.
