Here's the news after the bomb cyclone Ciarán: Portugal has "the physical conditions for storms to increase in frequency and amplitude"

"The warmer the ocean, the more energy is available for the atmosphere to be able to develop these very deep depressions with significant impacts." And since "the ocean is very slow", the consequences last over time.

Portugal has "the physical conditions for storms to increase in frequency and amplitude". Storm Ciarán, which arrived in Europe as a cyclone bomb, is not the first of its kind to hit Portuguese soil, but it is likely that such phenomena will become more frequent. The weekend should also bring another storm, which already has a name - Domingos.

Miguel Miranda, a geophysicist and former president of the Portuguese Institute for the Sea and Atmosphere (IPMA), told CNN Portugal that the size of the storms in question is very interesting. "It's very interesting from a physical point of view but very alarming from a social point of view," he said, noting that in the countries most affected, such as France, winds of 200 km/h have been recorded, a highly significant figure and one that is extremely rare on European soil.

Miguel Miranda explains that, above all due to global warming - which will cause the oceans to warm up - it is natural for phenomena like this to occur with greater frequency and intensity. "The warmer the ocean, the more energy is available for the atmosphere to be able to develop these very deep depressions with significant impacts on buildings and people," adds the geophysicist.

And although the worst is over, it's expected that there will still be a number of effects over the next few days, at least until the weekend. This is because "the ocean is very slow-moving", which means that the consequences can continue over time, even after the storm system has passed.

"This leads to restrictions on the coast, not least because there is a second ocean storm this weekend that will make life more difficult in coastal communities," says Miguel Miranda.

The expert therefore urges people to strictly comply with the recommendations of the IPMA, which has issued a red warning for much of the coastline, leaving at least one orange warning for the entire coast.

"It's important to realize that we're going to have a new high in sea waves. When an eight meter high swell is indicated, that means that 10% of the waves could be over 16 meters high. When there is a red warning issued by the IPMA, it has to be strictly adhered to because there are many dangers," reiterates Miguel Miranda.

Regarding the effects that these bomb cyclones can cause, Miguel Miranda says that "the Portuguese have some experience of tornadoes, systems of a different dimension", but warns of the impacts that wind and rain can have, especially in areas closer to the coast. Just look at what happened in 1941, when IPMA records recorded the first cyclone bomb on Portuguese soil.

"When winds reach speeds of this magnitude, they lift objects and destroy trees. The combined action of wind and rain is very impactful - the large trees that fall in urban areas are capable of destroying homes and vehicles," concludes the geophysicist.