'The Amazon emergency belongs to everyone', says Cacique Raoni

His home is in a village in Mato Grosso, in the heart of the Brazilian Amazon. But for some time now, his stage has been the whole world. Wherever he is invited, he goes, because indigenous leader Raoni Metuktire, now 93, has devoted his life not only to defending the Amazon rainforest, but to warning that, in the face of the climate disasters of our time, "nothing can be saved alone".

This led him, a year ago, to walk the red carpet at the Cannes Film Festival, and last March to Belém, where French President Emmanuel Macron, accompanied by his Brazilian counterpart, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, presented him with the insignia of the Legion of Honor.

And now Pope Francis has offered him a new opportunity: he wanted him to be one of the protagonists of the international summit "From the climate crisis to climate resistance", which took place in the Casina Pio VI in Vatican City.

Recalling his meeting with the Pontiff, Raoni told ANSA: "I asked him to make it clear to the Catholics who follow him in Brazil what the Church's orientation is on environmental issues, because sometimes they don't seem to have understood the message".

Speaking in the language of the Mebengokre indigenous people, Raoni pointed out that "a vacuum is gradually being created around our lands in the Amazon and there is no longer anything truly protected".

"We live almost on islands and, as if that weren't enough, there are people who aren't satisfied, who even want to attack the reserves where we live, putting our survival at risk."

"What is happening?" he asked, adding that he is "worried because people who live in the developed world don't understand that this is a problem for us, but also for them".

According to the chief, now in Brazil, "we are facing a 'monster' with two heads: on the one hand, the serious drought phenomena in the north of the country, where fires are multiplying, and, on the other, the tragedy of the floods, such as the one that occurred recently in the south of Brazil".

Focusing on indigenous lands, Raoni recalled that "when Lula became president, he promised me that he would clearly demarcate them".

"I'm still waiting for that to happen. Of course, we have better relations with his government than when Jair Bolsonaro was in power. But at the moment for us there are many words, but few actions."

Addressing the large group of experts who listened to him and who gave him a standing ovation at the end of his presentation at the summit, Raoni argued that "the developed world seems convinced of the urgency of the fight against climate change".

"But now we need to decide to immediately fund the tools to start the necessary projects, before it's too late. It's useless to remember that we don't normally use money in our reserves. Money, in large quantities, is used in the developed world," he said, guaranteeing that "the time has come to use [money] to save life on the planet".

