Groundwater reserves at risk due to climate change

The study, published on Saturday in the scientific journal Scientific Reports, from the Nature group, analyzed "an unprecedented set of data" collected over the course of a year in caves in various parts of the world, from the subarctic to the tropical regions, including, in Portugal, caves in the center of the country, the Algarve and the Azores.

Over the course of a year, the temperature in the caves and on the surface was measured every two hours, totaling more than 100,000 measurements, which "demonstrate that the temperature in the caves corresponds to the average annual surface temperature for each location," Ana Sofia Reboleira, Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon and researcher at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Change, told Lusa.

According to the biologist, "the caves responded with three different patterns": one in which the variation in the outside temperature is reflected in the cave with a small delay, another in which the surface temperatures are quickly reflected inside and a third in which they work in a mirror, the lower the surface temperature the higher inside the cave and vice versa.

More surprising was the discovery of "the existence of daily thermal cycles in some caves", which the researcher considered "particularly interesting because in ecosystems with a total absence of light, organisms lack circadian rhythms, i.e. biological rhythms marked by the natural cadence of day and night controlled by sunlight on the surface".

This discovery "shows that these daily thermal cycles can potentially control the biological rhythms of subterranean organisms", a hypothesis that has been put forward for the first time in the history of biology.

"These ecosystems are inhabited by unique species that play a very important role in what scientists call ecosystem services," he explained, "since it is these animals that guarantee the recycling of nutrients at depth, of some contaminants that arrive there, that control bacterial growth and other types of problems that can affect us."

Since they are organisms adapted to low amplitudes and reduced thermal variability, the increase in temperatures by several degrees, due to climate change, "will certainly affect these organisms responsible for ensuring the good ecological status of these bodies of water" underground, which represent 97% of the total freshwater resources available for immediate human consumption.

Among the caves covered in the study, the scientist highlights the case of one in Loulé, which recorded the highest surface temperature, with over 39 degrees, and another in the Azores, with the greatest thermal amplitude, with a variation of 8.8, explained by the fact that it is a volcanic cave.

The impact of climate change, combined with the fact that underground ecosystems "are constantly neglected in political and public agendas", has led the researchers to move ahead with laboratory studies "on the effects of rising temperatures on these organisms" in order to estimate the maximum temperatures they will be able to withstand.

In addition to the coordinator, the study now published involved the participation of Maria João Medina, a master's student whose dissertation the study includes, and Paulo Borges from the University of the Azores. Internationally, the work involved researchers from the United States, Serbia, Slovenia, Norway, Spain (including the Canary Islands), Croatia and the Pacific island of Guam.
