Arrest of Russian 'chef' raises fears of Russian interference in Paris 2024

The recent arrest of a Russian for alleged "destabilizing" activities against the Paris Games illustrates organizers' last-minute concerns that Moscow may try to disrupt the event, which starts next Friday (26).

The man, born in 1984, was arrested at his home in Paris this week and is suspected of "spying for a foreign power to provoke hostilities in France", the prosecutor's office said on Tuesday (23).

Le Monde reported that police found documents "of diplomatic interest" in his apartment, and that he is suspected of working for the Russian security service, the FSB, after appearing on reality TV shows and working for a while as a chef in a French ski resort.

"We strongly thought that he was going to organize destabilization operations, interference, espionage," French Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin told BFMTV on Wednesday (24), pointing to a variety of clues: "It could be cyber attacks that require complicity, it could be manipulation of information...".

The individual "is in the hands of the justice system, which will be able to clarify the police's suspicions," explained the minister, commenting that the suspect's presence on French soil is recent.

- Campaign to discredit the Games -

Darmanin recalled that "other Russian individuals" had recently been arrested in the capital, and that the French authorities had been observing a disinformation campaign aimed at discrediting the Paris Olympics.

The minister recalled a very recent video on social media of an alleged representative of the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas threatening France with attacks for hosting Israeli athletes, but which turned out to be a fake.

"We think it's a fake video spread by accounts that, as far as we can see, are pro-Kremlin, pro-Russia," said the minister, denouncing a "multiplicity" of maneuvers that could "cause damage to our country and cause concern."

Almost all Russian athletes have been excluded from competing in the Paris Games as a measure of diplomatic retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and only fifteen will take part under a neutral flag.

At the weekend, Darmanin revealed that the French authorities had rejected a "large number" of requests from Russian citizens to be accredited as journalists and follow the Games, due to suspicions that they might actually be spies. Requests from Russian citizens to volunteer were also denied.

Russia has denied its involvement in any destabilization operation against the Paris Games and said that refusing accreditation to Russian reporters "violates freedom of the press".

In April, French President Emmanuel Macron assured that he had "no doubt" that Russia was targeting the organization of the Olympic Games, "including the information sphere".

