Extreme heat, fires and rain that won't fall: water-stressed Greek islands are already banning swimming pools and resorting to desalination

Water shortages have led some Greek islands to ban swimming pools and resort to desalination. Just weeks after Greece faced its earliest ever heatwave in June, several parts of the country are now dealing with a new crisis: severe water shortages.

An emergency has been declared in Sifnos in the Cyclades, Leros in the Dodecanese islands, Sami in Cephalonia and parts of Crete.

The inhabitants of these regions are demanding urgent intervention as water resources run out. Water levels are also low on the Attica peninsula, which covers Athens.

On the island of Naxos, in the south of the Aegean, the largest reservoir has dried up due to low rainfall and hot weather, according to the Reuters news agency.

The lack of rain in recent months, combined with scorching temperatures of up to 40ºC, has caused this situation. The inadequate infrastructure and lack of maintenance of the desalination plants on the islands have further exacerbated the problem.

Forest fires have also contributed to the crisis. In June, a fire on Serifos destroyed part of the island's water supply network, which is now facing its lowest water reserves in 20 years.

With the maximum need for water for supply and irrigation, farmers are the hardest hit. Many are being forced to resort to wells contaminated by seawater due to the low water levels, reports Reuters.

With the tourist season in full swing, visitor infrastructure is putting even more pressure on water resources. Increased construction and uncontrolled use of swimming pools have contributed to water shortages on the islands, Elissavet Feloni, a hydrologist and professor at the University of Western Attica, told Greek channel Naftemporiki.

Last month was the hottest June ever recorded globally and the 13th consecutive month of record temperatures, according to the European climate service Copernicus. It was also the 12th month in a row in which the world was 1.5ºC warmer than in pre-industrial times, extremes attributed to man-made emissions.

With dry conditions expected to persist in the coming months, Feloni called for controls on water consumption and stricter government monitoring.

Some islands have already taken measures on their own. Karpathos and Serifos have imposed restrictions on refilling swimming pools. On Viannos, in Crete, strict limits have been set on the use of water for irrigation.

The small Dodecanese island of Lipsi has gone ahead and banned the construction of swimming pools for the hot summer of 2023 to encourage a more sustainable approach to tourism.

The northern island of Thassos is investing in a desalination plant to make seawater drinkable, according to Reuters.

In places where an emergency situation has been declared, processes for transferring water, improving supply and accessing government funds have been accelerated.

Three new wells are planned in Crete, while the navy has transported water to Leros, according to local press reports.

This water crisis on the Greek islands underlines the urgent need to adapt to climate change and manage natural resources more sustainably.