Russia and Hungary criticize Paris Games opening ceremony

Russia, which was excluded from the Paris 2024 Olympic Games because of its offensive against Ukraine, said on Saturday (27) that the opening ceremony of the sporting event was a "major failure", while Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban said that the celebration reflected the "fragility and disintegration of the West".

Russian diplomatic spokeswoman Maria Zakharova highlighted on Telegram what she considered to be the failings of the spectacle, which took place on Friday (26) on the River Seine.

"I hadn't planned to see the opening. But after seeing the photos, I couldn't believe it wasn't a deep fake or photoshop," she wrote on Telegram. The ceremony was not shown live on Russian television.

Zakharova cited, among other things, the "collapse of transport", after the French rail network suffered acts of sabotage, and "spectators sitting for hours in heavy rain".

"The organizers didn't think about cloud dispersal or awnings," she added, in a reference to the Russian practice of sending planes ahead of major outdoor events to try to break through the clouds.

Zakharova also said that the center of Paris had been "turned into a ghetto for homeless people" and that "rats flooded the streets" of the capital.

The spokeswoman particularly criticized the presence of drag queens at one point during the ceremony, whose reenactment recalled Jesus Christ's last supper with his apostles.

"In Paris, they decided that if the Olympic rings are multicolored, you can turn everything into a giant gay march," she added.

Only 16 Russian athletes accepted the invitation of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to take part in the event under a neutral flag.

In Hungary, Orban said the spectacle showed Western "emptiness".

"They have gradually eliminated metaphysical ties, with God, homeland and family," said the head of the Hungarian government, adding that this has led to the "absence of public morality".

According to Orban, who advocates an "illiberal" doctrine, "Western values, considered universal for a long time, are increasingly considered unacceptable and rejected by many countries in the world", such as China, India, Turkey or the Arab countries.
