The world's largest moving iceberg causes alarm in the international community. "Antarctica is waking up"

The world's largest iceberg is moving for the first time in more than 30 years. The mass of ice, called A23a, broke away from the Antarctic coast at the end of the 1980s and was previously a fixed "ice island" in the Weddell Sea, a disputed region between the United Kingdom and Argentina - a reality that has been changing over the last year.

With an impressive 4,000 square kilometers of area (more than 40 times the size of the city of Lisbon) and a depth of 400 meters, the recent movement of A23a has left the scientific community on alert.

"It had been stationary since 1986, but eventually it was going to shrink enough in size that it was going to lose adhesion and start moving," Andrew Fleming, an expert from the British Antarctic Survey, told the BBC, adding that the first movements of the platform began to be seen "in 2020".

In recent months, the intensity of this movement has increased, partly due to a change in winds and sea currents. A23a is now almost past the northern tip of the Antarctic Peninsula. From there, it will probably set a course for the South Atlantic - a route that is already known as "iceberg alley".

Originally part of the Filchner-Ronne ice barrier, the ice mass broke away from the coast in 1986. At the time, it had a Soviet research station on its surface, which led Moscow to send an expedition to rescue the equipment and research.

The drift of the A23a comes at a time when another round of international climate debates is scheduled - a fact that prompted a visit to Antarctica by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, where he once again warned of the tragedy of climate change.

"What happens in Antarctica doesn't stay in Antarctica. (...) We are witnessing a completely devastating acceleration," said Guterres, who described the upcoming COP28 meeting in Dubai as an opportunity to agree on a period for energy transition and the abandonment of fossil fuels. "Antarctica is waking up, and the world must wake up with it," he added.