Study shows that 500,000 hectares of Caatinga can be recovered

An area equivalent to three cities in São Paulo could have its native caatinga vegetation recovered from deforestation and desertification. The information is contained in a survey released this week by the Dutch foundation IDH and the research institute WRI Brasil, both linked to sustainable initiatives. According to the study, the areas are located in Cariri Ocidental, in Paraíba; Sertão do Pajeú, in Pernambuco; and Sertão do Apodi, in Rio Grande do Norte.

The research highlights that native vegetation, if restored on these 500,000 hectares, can provide sustainable income and jobs for local populations. This is in addition to providing water regulation, soil stabilization and erosion control. As WRI Brasil's Projects and Research Coordinator, Luciana Alves, explains:

"in the Caatinga, investments directed at productive restoration and also ecological restoration, is an opportunity to establish processes for conservation and for restoration, but which will also bring social results, economic results and the maintenance of the people who already live in that territory, as well as providing ecological benefits that are fundamental to the processes of adaptation and mitigation of climate change."

The survey also points out the best ways to recover these areas. These include the production of honey, the planting of fodder palm - to feed cattle - fruit crops, goat and goat breeding, all in the Agroforestry System. This agricultural practice combines trees and shrubs with agricultural crops and animal husbandry in the same area.

According to Mapbiomas' Annual Deforestation Report, deforestation of the Caatinga has advanced in recent years. In 2023, for example, 201,687 hectares of Caatinga were destroyed; an increase of 43.3% compared to 2022.

In June of this year, the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change selected 12 priority projects for the creation of federal conservation units in the Caatinga. These units should be in place by 2026 and will increase protected areas by more than one million hectares.
