The appetite for bigger cars is growing around the world and making the fight against global warming more difficult

The negative impact of passenger cars on the climate, which is considerable, could have fallen by more than 30% in the last decade if it weren't for the world's appetite for large cars, suggests a new report by the Global Fuel Economy Initiative.

Transportation is responsible for around a quarter of all climate-warming gases from energy, and much of this can be attributed to passenger transport, according to the International Energy Agency.

But the negative environmental impact of SUVs could have been reduced by more than a third between 2010 and 2022 if people had continued to buy cars of the same size, according to the initiative, a global partnership of cleaner vehicle groups.

One solution to this could be electric vehicles (EVs).

George Parrott, a 79-year-old avid runner who lives in West Sacramento, California, decided to switch to cleaner vehicles in 2004, when he bought a hybrid Toyota Prius. Since then, he has had several pure electric cars and currently has a Genesis GV60 electric SUV and a Tesla Model 3.

Not all consumers feel the same way about energy consumption and environmental benefits, especially in the US. Although EV sales accounted for 15% of the global car market last year, this percentage was only 7.3% in the US.

Meanwhile, smaller vehicles, or sedans, have lost a lot of ground in the American market over the last decade. In 2012, sedans accounted for 50% of the car retail space in the US, with SUVs at just over 30%, and trucks at 13.5%, according to car buying company Edmunds. By 2022, the share of sedans in the US has fallen to 21%, while SUVs have reached 54.5%, and trucks have grown to 20%.

"People don't want to be limited by space in the car," said Eric Frehsée, president of the Tamaroff Group of dealerships in southeast Michigan. "Everyone wants a seven-passenger car."

"This was all a combination of broad environmental concerns," he said.

More efforts are being made by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to improve the fuel economy and tailpipe emissions of gasoline-powered vehicles. Some initiatives could include SUVs, which has left the sector in an uproar.
