Climate activists dye Venice canal green in protest against COP28

Italian environmentalists used dye to green the Grand Canal in Venice this Saturday (9), in protest against what they considered to be a lack of progress at COP28, the UN Climate Change Conference taking place in Dubai until next Tuesday (12).

Hanging from the Rialto Bridge over the canal with the help of climbing ropes, the activists from the Extinction Rebellion group also displayed a banner which read: "COP28: While the government talks, we're hanging by a thread".

Small sections of rivers and canals in other Italian cities were also dyed green in similar protests. "In a few hours, these waters will return to what they were before," the group said in a statement. "In the meantime, we count the damage and the victims of the constant floods and fires."

According to the protesters, the visual effect was created by a dye used by companies to track items in the water. Boat traffic was disrupted during the protest, and the canal water and columns had to be checked for safety reasons, according to the mayor of Venice, Luigi Brugnaro.

The politician criticized the actions of the activists, whom he called "ecovandals", and called on the Italian authorities to punish them. "Venice is a fragile city that must be loved and respected! Enough is enough," he said.

Brugnaro borrowed the nickname given to the protesters from figures such as the current Italian Minister of Culture, Gennaro Sangiuliano. He is crusading against environmentalist protests targeting monuments and works of art - acts that have become more common in recent years.

In April, the government of Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni announced a bill that provides for stricter fines of between 10,000 and 60,000 euros for those who destroy, stain or disfigure all or part of cultural and landscape assets.

The measures are in addition to sanctions already present in the penal code for this type of crime, which today reach five years in prison and a fine of 15,000 euros. "Anyone who damages our artistic heritage cannot and should not get away with it," said the ultra-right-winger on social media at the time.
