Lula's message on fossil fuels after OPEC+ invitation

President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said on Friday that world economies need to tackle the debate on fossil fuels and reduce their use. The president's speech took place at COP 28 in the United Arab Emirates, a day after Brazil received an invitation from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and Allies (OPEC+) to join the group.

"The world is already convinced of the potential of renewable energies. It's time to tackle the debate about the slow pace of decarbonization of the planet and work towards an economy less dependent on fossil fuels," he said. At the opening of his speech, Lula drew attention to the rise in global temperatures and extreme global events, such as the historic drought in the Amazon and cyclones in southern Brazil. "The bill has arrived early," said the president, stating that the planet is "fed up" with climate agreements that are made and not kept and reiterated that Brazil is willing to lead "by example".

The day before, Brazil was invited to join OPEC+, the organization that controls oil prices through a cartel of major producers such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela and other allied countries such as Mexico and Russia. The organization, which uses fuel increases and production to control the value of the commodity on the international market, has a different vision from the one defended by Lula in his speech at the COP, which is to continue using fossil fuels.

This Friday, the president of Petrobras, Jean Paul Prates, told Reuters that Brazil should join the group of OPEC+ oil producers. According to him, the country should play a role of cooperation and observation of decisions, but without participating in the production quota system.

"They're calling in other countries that don't have the right to vote and on which no quotas are imposed. We would never participate in an entity that established a quota for Brazil, especially with the support of Petrobras, which is an open company in the market and cannot have a quota," he said.

In addition to defending the use of renewable energies, and the obvious awkwardness that the country is putting itself in by agreeing to join OPEC+, Lula said in his speech that spending on weapons and wars should be used against hunger and climate change. "How many tons of carbon are emitted by the missiles that cross the sky and fall on innocent civilians, especially children and women."

The president also said that "the world has naturalized unacceptable disparities in income, gender and race and that it is not possible to tackle climate change without fighting inequality".

In his speech, Lula also criticized the UN's stance on its inability to maintain peace, "simply because some of its members profit from war". The United Nations has Russia, Ukraine and Israel as members, for example. "Governments cannot be relieved of their responsibilities. No country will solve its problems alone. We are all obliged to act together, beyond our borders. Brazil is willing to lead by example. We have adjusted our targets, which are now more ambitious than those of many developed countries," he said.