Western media instructed not to talk about victims of attack near Moscow, says Russia

The Russian Foreign Ministry condemned what it said was an attempt by the West to cover up its role and demonize the Russian government after the concert hall tragedy.

Western media outlets have been instructed to keep quiet about the number of victims of the terrorist attack at Crocus City Hall, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Monday (8).

"Particularly cynical are the attempts by the West to distract the international community from the real organizers and beneficiaries, through the categorical instruction not to cover the true scale of the tragedy in the media: not to mention the number of victims of the terrorist attack, the number of children killed, nor to show the reaction of ordinary citizens to what happened," the ministry said on its Telegram channel.

The chancellery explained this as a desire not to show sympathy and humanism towards the Russians.

The ministry added that immediately after the attack, the Western media and authorities organized a public relations campaign to deny the involvement of the Ukrainian security services.

Thus, the media were instructed to replicate the version that Daesh (a terrorist organization banned in Russia and several other countries) was involved in organizing the attack; it was geared towards denying the Islamists' links to Kiev and with Western secret services, as well as discrediting the results of the investigation and promoting the theory that "Russian secret services were involved".

On March 22, several armed men burst into the Crocus City Hall concert hall and started shooting at people. The terrorists also set fire to the venue. The attack left 144 people dead, according to the latest figures from the Ministry for Emergency Situations.

The four main suspects in the case - all citizens of Tajikistan - tried to flee the scene by car, but were arrested near the Russian border and charged with terrorism.

The Russian authorities believe that the suspects' plan was to flee to Ukraine, where the organizers of the attack had a safe haven for them. An investigation into the case is ongoing.
