Bushy moustaches versus activists, in the Age of Climate Busting

Eduardo Oliveira e Sousa, from Ribatejo, sporting the lushest, bushiest moustache of this election campaign, made quite a splash last week, and not just because of his well-pruned supra-labial hair. The AD candidate for Santarém spoke of "false climatic reasons" that hinder investment, an opinion that, unluckily, many people do not currently tolerate. Or, if they do, they're afraid to proclaim it in the middle of the hunting season for votes, so as not to upset the most sensitive souls, like the swarm of political commentators who got fed up with the agro-forestry entrepreneur who is now running for deputy.

The AD candidate, who until a year ago led the powerful Confederation of Portuguese Farmers (CAP) and CNEMA in Santarém, limited himself to sharing what was in his soul and what he fully believes. His and that of many other people, it must be said. And coming to his aid, in a gesture of solidarity that suggests that the news about climate change is clearly exaggerated, was also Saint Peter. In the days following Oliveira e Sousa's unbridled declarations, the saint in charge of the climate showered us with rain, wind, cold and snow in the highlands, as if to demonstrate that tradition is still what it used to be and so is winter. What climate change, what hat! It even rained at Carnival, remember?

At that election rally in Ourém, Oliveira e Sousa emphasized that there have always been extreme weather events. And he emphasized it very well! Those more delicate and prickly spirits who had experienced an ice age when there were no Alentejo samarras, salamanders or hot water bags; or who had faced a deluge of biblical proportions without life jackets, flippers and rubber dinghies, were going to see what was good for their coughs.

Manel, I have an activist past that I didn't know about until relatively recently, which ends up reconciling me with my unlucky and climatically irresponsible youth. For years I harbored the idea, and the remorse, that I had committed a lot of shenanigans and pranks of dubious taste, for which I would have to answer on the day of reckoning. But in the meantime I discovered that there was little or nothing to separate me from those who today are known as climate activists (and for other causes) and who even enjoy a certain sympathy and social reputation, particularly among young people.

Nowadays, people do everything in their power - from cutting roads, vandalizing facilities, throwing eggs and paint at people - and all of these practices, which some would have called vandalism, delinquency or rioting, are now manifestations of activism because they are practiced by the euphemistically named activists. In short, semantic liberties that help me to ease my conscience and better reflect on who to vote for...

