Hungary maintains veto on EU funds to Kyiv (if blockade continues)

The decision was announced by Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó in an interview with private television ATV, alluding to the European fund that Budapest has been blocking since May.

"Until Ukraine resolves this issue, let everyone forget about paying the 6.6 billion euros," he said.

On Monday, Hungary and Slovakia asked the European Commission to mediate with Ukraine, after Kiev included the Lukoil oil company on its sanctions list, implying the end of oil transit to the two countries via the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline.

The minister stressed that Hungary will not support European Union (EU) funding for arms shipments to Ukraine as long as the energy security of the Central European country, which currently holds the six-month rotating presidency of the EU Council, remains at risk.

"Ukraine's decision not to allow Lukoil to transit oil through Ukraine implies a fundamental threat to the security of energy supplies to Hungary and Slovakia," Hungarian government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs said on social network X on Monday.

Hungary and Slovakia depend essentially on Russian oil imports, and although the sanctions on Lukoil have affected the exchange, the two countries continue to receive supplies from other Russian companies.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his Slovak counterpart Robert Fico, both defined as "pro-Russian", have opposed military support for Ukraine in the wake of the Russian invasion and advocate a negotiated solution to end the conflict.

The Russian military offensive on Ukrainian territory, launched on February 24, 2022, plunged Europe into what is considered the most serious security crisis since the Second World War (1939-1945).

Ukraine has been relying on financial and arms aid from the Western allies, who have also enacted sanctions against key sectors of the Russian economy in an attempt to reduce Moscow's ability to finance the war effort.

The last few months have been marked by large-scale Russian air strikes against Ukrainian cities and infrastructure, while Kiev's forces have been targeting targets on Russian territory close to the border and on the Crimean peninsula, illegally annexed in 2014.

Now in the third year of the war, the Ukrainian armed forces are facing a shortage of soldiers, arms and ammunition, despite repeated promises of help from Western allies, which have since begun to materialize.