World's hottest day on record for the second time in a row

The world once again had its hottest day on record on Monday (22), surpassing Sunday (21), which had also broken a record, according to preliminary data from a European Union monitoring agency.

With heatwaves around the world and forest fires in parts of the Mediterranean, Russia and Canada, the global average surface air temperature rose to 17.15 degrees Celsius (°C) on Monday. This figure was 0.06 ºC higher than Sunday's record, according to the European Union's Copernicus Climate Change Service, which has been tracking this data since 1940.

This includes temperatures in the Southern Hemisphere, which is currently in winter, lowering the global average.

Scientists have said that it is possible that Tuesday and Wednesday this week will once again surpass Monday's record.

Until then, the record hot day was recorded in July 2023, when the average daily peak was broken for four consecutive days - from July 3 to 6. Before that, the record was set in August 2016.

El-niño

What makes this year's record unusual is that, unlike 2023 and 2016, in April the world came out of the El Niño weather pattern, which generally amplifies global temperatures due to warmer than normal waters in the Eastern Pacific.

Karsten Haustein, a climate scientist at the University of Leipzig in Germany, said that it is remarkable that the record has been broken again now that the world is in the "neutral" phase of the El Niño-Southern Oscillation.

This points to the greater influence than ever of climate change, driven by the burning of fossil fuels, on rising global temperatures.

"Last Monday may have set a new world record for the hottest absolute global average temperature ever, i.e. going back tens of thousands of years," said Haustein.

China has issued a series of heat alerts this week, with dozens of weather stations in parts of the central and northwestern parts of the country recording temperatures above 40°C.

Extreme events

Taiwan braced for the impact of Typhoon Gaemi on Wednesday, with factories and financial markets closed amid forecasts of torrential rain.

Scientists say climate change is making typhoons - tropical cyclones that gain energy by feeding off the ocean's heat - more intense, capable of reaching higher wind speeds and dumping more rain.

Japan is also suffering from record heat throughout July. Heatstroke warnings were issued in 39 of the country's 47 prefectures on Monday, with temperatures exceeding 37°C.

On Tuesday, more than 40 million Americans were facing dangerous temperatures, mainly in the western United States, where wind gusts and dry conditions have fueled dozens of forest fires.

Even the Arctic is facing a heatwave.

Fairbanks, Alaska, is expected to reach 31°C on Wednesday, approaching previous records, while temperatures in parts of the Canadian, Russian and Norwegian Arctic were reaching temperatures more than 9°C above the 1979 to 2000 average for this time of year.
