Brazil's first protest at COP28 uses giant pink dolphin against oil exploration in the Amazon

A 4-meter-long pink dolphin, made by artist Gil Reais, was the protagonist of Brazil's first protest action at COP28 in Dubai, held this Sunday (3).

The initiative, entitled "Boto Alerta: Queremos nadar na água, não no petróleo!", was carried out by the youth organization Engajamundo, in partnership with Greenpeace Brasil, in the Blue Zone of the UN climate conference.

The aim was to denounce the socio-environmental impacts that oil exploration in the Amazon region could cause, one of the issues that is clouding Brazil's presence at the Lula administration's first COP.

Brazilian protest at COP28 inspired by dolphin deaths

The inspiration for the sculpture was the death of dolphins impacted by the severe drought of the last period, representing the fauna and oil exploration in the Amazon River Mouth Basin.

For Marcelo Laterman, spokesperson for Greenpeace Brazil, the action carried out in partnership with Engajamundo denounces the contradiction of the Brazilian government in defending the expansion of oil frontiers in the country, especially in sensitive areas such as the Amazon, while at the same time seeking to reposition the country in a leading role in the climate agenda.

"In a creative way, these young activists are sending an important message: there is no virtuous future for the Amazon with the advance of oil in the region. The opening of this new frontier could be marked as President Lula's worst socio-environmental legacy. The government must fulfill its promises and defend the Amazon, its peoples and face the climate crisis responsibly."

Between 2012 and 2020, according to Engajamundo, the number of oil fields in the Amazon increased by 13% and, if this new frontier on the Amazon coast is opened, this number will increase exponentially.

Brazil is the 9th largest oil producer in the world. Engajamundo and Greenpeace criticize Brazil's entry as an observer in OPEC+ (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries), in the middle of COP28, "which shows that the country and its leaders still have oil as an economic priority, despite their speeches in defence of decarbonization".

Jaciara Borari is one of Engajamundo's indigenous activists and is part of the delegation that organized this action.

"We want the protest at COP28 to somehow express the urgency of this agenda reaching decision-makers, and for the oil exploration process in the Amazon River Mouth Basin to be rethought and stopped.

"There's still time to avoid a great disaster foretold!" the activist warns.
