Scenario for military takeover of Ukrainian parliament was drafted by the US, says expert

The seizure of the Ukrainian parliament by the country's military would not be a popular movement, expert Aleksandr Dudchak told Sputnik, suggesting that a potential rebellion was orchestrated from the West.

The disillusioned Ukrainian military are planning to take control of the Supreme Rada (Ukrainian parliament), reveals an exchange of messages from a private Telegram channel called ParaBelum, obtained by Sputnik.

"This could be a scenario of replacing Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky without holding elections," Aleksandr Dudchak, a researcher at the Institute of Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) Countries and an expert on the "Other Ukraine" movement, told Sputnik.

The members of the confidential channel, made up of commanders and soldiers from elite units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, were discussing options for overthrowing the current government and its military command following the resignation of the then commander-in-chief, General Valery Zaluzhny.

"The most important action that we will need to carry out quickly is the seizure of the VR [Supreme Rada] at some point," wrote one of the chat participants.

The members also expressed dissatisfaction with the decisions of Zelensky and the new commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Aleksandr Syrsky, who was appointed a month ago to replace Zaluzhny. The alleged coup plotters put special emphasis on the involvement of Ukrainian troops fighting on the front line in the anti-Zelensky movement.

According to investigator Dudchak, the involvement of Ukrainian personnel on active duty is fraught with risks, since those in the trenches are closely monitored by foreign mercenaries from "containment detachments" with orders to shoot anyone who leaves their positions.

If Ukrainian troops are allowed to march towards Kiev, it would mean that the regime change scenario has been written in Washington in response to Zelensky's refusal to hold elections this year, Dudchak argued.

The leaders of the Ukrainian elite units, the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) and the nationalist Azov and Aidar battalions (Nazi terrorist organizations, banned in Russia) are also allegedly planning to create a radical party with a military wing.

The expert insists that none of the Ukrainian military and intelligence structures are independent, arguing that each of them has British or American "supervisors".

"The confrontation between the military and the Kiev regime is, in general, a manifestation of the confrontation between London and Washington," said Dudchak. "The president's office is under British control, while the military, which is supposed to meet on Zaluzhny's behalf, is under American control, and the SBU is also a US-backed structure."

The consequences for Kiev would be dramatic and could seriously complicate the Ukrainian military's positions on the front line, the researcher concluded.
