United Kingdom: the country has been invaded by a new species of jumping spider!

Scientists have recently discovered a new species of spider in the south of England. It is believed that its migration has been facilitated by climate change. The researchers guarantee that this species is not poisonous to humans. However, it is attracting a lot of attention.

But what is happening? Several cities in the United States have recently been on alert for invasions of exotic giant spiders. It's enough to make people panic. Now it's Europe's turn, more specifically the southern regions of the United Kingdom.

During a biological census carried out by the British Arachnological Society in Penryn, west Cornwall (England), in 2023, researchers identified a species of spider native to the Caribbean for the first time. Far from the giant exotic spider invading the United States, this species is tiny, measuring no more than 3 to 4 mm in length.

Scientifically called Anasaitis milesae, this species of jumping spider is completely harmless. Like most spiders, it is not poisonous, but like all animals, it defends itself by biting when it feels threatened. Given its size, its bite seems insignificant. But how did it get from the Caribbean to England?

According to scientists, it traveled thanks to international trade. Due to its tiny size, it could easily fit into suitcases or be transported in international containers. And it's clear that it liked the Anglo-Saxon climate. It's not the only animal and insect to travel in this way; the Asian hornet was also introduced in this way.

As a result of climate change, insect invasions are becoming more frequent. The milder climate of the UK's port regions is favoring the establishment of these new specimens. Anasaitis milesae is not the only species to have recently arrived in the European country.

Experts have also spotted a Mediterranean spider called Zoropsis spinimana, or 'false wolf spider', in London. Another species identified in the south of the UK is the Segestria florentina. This spider has the peculiarity that its fangs are green. Unlike the Caribbean species, these two species are imposing in size and have a painful bite. And like the Anasaitis milesae, they are not dangerous to humans.