Activists who blocked the Segunda Circular and ended up in prison have already been released. They go to court tomorrow

The 11 climate activists from the Climáximo movement, who this Tuesday morning began a blockade of the Segunda Circular, in Lisbon, from 9 a.m., in the middle of rush hour, on three of the four lanes in the Benfica-Aeroporto direction, have already been released by the authorities, after having been arrested during the protest.

The young people were released at 5pm from the PSP and Benfica police station, where they were being held. As they left, there were some family members and colleagues from the movement, who clapped their hands and shouted new slogans calling for government action to stop climate change. A banner reading "They're destroying everything you love" was displayed.

"Fires, floods, droughts, heatwaves that kill thousands of people. They know this and continue to increase emissions. We need peace and a disarmament of the weapons they have pointed at all of us," said Noah Zino, one of the activists.

The activists will be brought before a judge tomorrow at 10am at the Campus de Justiça in Lisbon. Saying that they did not yet know the crimes of which they were accused, they admit that it is most likely that they will be charged with disobedience and disturbing public order.

"We have stopped consenting to a normality that kills more people every two days than died in the Pedrogão Grande fires. We will accompany anyone who wants to stop this genocide," continued the activist, assuring that actions of this kind will continue.

Nine of the arrested activists, who had been cutting through the Segunda Circular, were taken away by a special police unit vehicle, and the two hanging from the viaduct were eventually removed by the authorities, in particular the Lisbon Sapper Fire Brigade, and arrested.

Several INEM ambulances were mobilized to the scene, as well as two cars from the Lisbon Sapadores Fire Brigade with more than 10 operatives, four cars from the special police unit and five operatives from the Prevention and Immediate Reaction Team (EPRI) of the Lisbon PSP metropolitan command.

Watch videos of the protest and chaos in Lisbon this morning here:

On social media, the group posted several videos of the moment, including when the police were forced to intervene to remove two protesters hanging by a rope from the 2nd Circular viaduct, on which they were holding a banner reading "governments and companies have declared war on society and the planet".