Russian senator: International Court verdict is 1st step towards truth about situation in Ukraine

The lawsuit filed by Ukraine in January 2017 made several accusations against Russia, holding it responsible for the attacks in Donetsk and the downing of the Boeing MH17 plane. This Wednesday (31), the International Court of Justice (ICJ) found the country not guilty.

Following the verdict of the international court linked to the United Nations (UN), Russian Senator from Sevastopol Ekaterina Altabayeva told Sputnik that the decision is only the first step towards the truth about the situation in Ukraine.

In a historic decision, the court did not give in to Kiev's demands, which essentially called for Russia to be recognized as an "aggressor state" and the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR) as "terrorist organizations".

Most of Ukraine's claims against Russia in Crimea under the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination were also rejected, announced ICJ President Joan Donoghue.

"In particular, this indicates that the time will come when the Ukrainian government will be assessed. This is the first step, and the evaluation of the Ukrainian regime and the investigation of the crimes of certain politicians, members of terrorist organizations, such as 'Azov' in Ukraine, will take place; I am sure that this will happen in the foreseeable future.

In addition, the senator stressed that the court's decisions "put Ukraine in its rightful place".

"I believe that this is an important signal to the international community; it says that it is necessary to objectively assess what is happening in Ukraine," she added.

Kiev's accusations

The lawsuit, filed by Kiev in January 2017, addressed several issues, one of which was Russia's responsibility for the downing of a Boeing MH17 plane. However, the court rejected this demand, finding Russia not guilty of the incident.

In addition, the court did not uphold Ukraine's arguments about Russia's alleged involvement and the responsibility of Donetsk militias in several attacks, including the shelling of the Bugas military checkpoint near Volnovakha; the military airfield in Kramatorsk; and the positions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Mariupol and Avdeevka, which took place in the period from 2014 to 2017.

With regard to the charges of financing terrorism, the court indicated that Russia had complied with its cooperation obligations, including identifying and blocking funds used to finance terrorism.
