Last Sunday was the hottest day ever recorded in the world, says European observatory

Last Sunday, July 21, was the hottest day on record globally, according to preliminary data from the European Union's Copernicus Climate Change Service.

The average air temperature on the planet's surface on Sunday reached 17.09°C - slightly above the previous record of 17.08°C set on July 6 last year.

Heatwaves have hit large areas of the United States, Europe and Russia over the last week.

The Copernicus observatory confirmed to Reuters that the daily average temperature record set last year appears to have been broken on Sunday, according to its records, which date back to 1940.

According to Copernicus, the new daily record could be surpassed in the coming days. Temperatures should then drop, but fluctuations are still expected in the coming weeks.

"What is really surprising is the magnitude of the difference between the temperature of the last 13 months and the previous records. We are in uncharted territory and, as the climate warms up, we will certainly break new records in the coming months and years," predicts Carlo Buontempo, director of Copernicus' climate change department (known by the acronym C3S).

Every month since June 2023 - that is, 13 consecutive months - has been classified as the hottest on the planet since records began, compared to the corresponding month in previous years, Copernicus said.

Last year, four consecutive days broke the record, from July 3 to 6, as a result of climate change caused by human activities, especially the burning of fossil fuels. In 2023, this will lead to days of extreme heat throughout the northern hemisphere.

Before July 2023, the record daily average global temperature had been 16.8°C, on August 13, 2016, according to the European observatory. Since July 3, 2023, 57 days have exceeded this index.

Some scientists suggest that 2024 could surpass 2023 as the hottest year on record, since climate change and the natural El Niño phenomenon - which ended in April - have pushed temperatures even higher this year.

The Copernicus observatory, however, is cautious when commenting on this possibility. "For now, 2024 is warm enough for the whole year" to break the record, said the European service, "but the exceptional heat recorded in the last four months of 2023 makes it too early [to predict]".
