Too much sunlight and heat reduce mental abilities: these are the results of a study

Science, in several studies published in the literature, has amply demonstrated how excessive heat can lead to heat exhaustion or heat stroke, as the body's internal temperature rises dangerously.

A new study shows that the scorching sun can have an impact on the brain even when the body temperature remains normal, without excessive temperatures.

The research

Supported by the EU-funded HEAT-SHIELD project, the team responsible for the research suggests that the real effect of prolonged exposure to sunlight on the temperature and functioning of the brain has not been fully explored in previous research.

"Acute exposure did not affect performance parameters, while prolonged exposure of the head and neck resulted in a 1ºC increase in core temperature and significant changes in controlled cognitive performance and motor activities," says the study published in the journal Scientific Reports.

"Importantly, the impairments appeared at significantly lower levels of hyperthermia compared to previous experiments," it adds. Cognition refers to the mental abilities and processes involved in acquiring and processing the information needed for everyday life. It includes memory, cognition, attention, reasoning, problem-solving and comprehension.

The consequences of hyperthermia

Hyperthermia, even short-term hyperthermia, can lead to cognitive impairment, negatively affecting attention, memory and information processing.

These results underline the importance of including the effect of radiative heat from sunlight on the head and neck in future scientific assessments of the impacts of heat stress and specific head protection to minimize the harmful effects.

What is the impact of heat stress?

According to Professor Lars Nybo, co-author of the study, "the decrease in cognitive performance was observed at 38.5 degrees, i.e. at a body temperature one degree lower than that demonstrated by previous studies, which represents a substantial difference."

Co-author Andreas Flouris, associate professor at the University of Thessaly and a partner in the project, stresses the need to mitigate the deterioration in health and performance induced by heat stress, intensified by global warming.

The expert stresses that people who work or carry out daily activities outdoors should protect their heads from sunlight. "The ability to maintain concentration and avoid attenuation of motor and cognitive performance is certainly important for safety at work and in traffic, as well as for minimizing the risks of error during other daily activities."

The impact of solar radiation on climate change

The researchers conclude that the harmful effects of solar radiation should be taken into account in future studies analyzing the current effects of atmospheric or climate change on occupational health.

For the purposes of the study, the researchers tested the mental abilities of eight men, aged between 27 and 41, while they worked at computers with direct exposure to heat from lamps aimed at their heads and backs.