Russia admits to moving missiles if US puts long-range missiles in Germany

"I don't rule out any options," said Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Serguei Riabkov, when asked about the possibility of deploying nuclear missiles if the United States of America (USA) confirms its decision, adding that such actions imply "the definitive end of arms control agreements in that zone".

"In this situation, taking into account the combined capabilities of the countries that are members of NATO, we must evaluate our responses, without any internal limitations in terms of what, where and when [missiles] should or should not be deployed. This means that the options should be as broad as possible," he said, quoted by the Russian news agency Interfax.

In this sense, the deputy minister said that Russia's position "is not a threat to anyone, it is just looking for the most effective process, also in terms of costs, to respond to changing challenges".

Riabkov also assured that the Russian authorities will guarantee the security of the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad (a Russian enclave in the Baltic bordering Lithuania and Poland, two EU and NATO countries), which "has long attracted the attention of adversaries".

"If the representatives of the German government consider it justified to initiate measures for escalation under the pretext of the situation in the region, we will respond with compensatory measures in the way we consider most acceptable," he stressed.

"Nothing will stop us when it comes to solving the problems for our security along the entire perimeter of Russia's borders," he said.

Last week, Riabkov said that "the nature of Russia's reaction" - should the US decide on such a measure, which would imply the first US shipment of this weaponry to Germany since the end of the Cold War - "will be decided calmly and professionally".

The announcement by the United States and Germany indicates, according to the Spanish news agency Europa Press, that the deployment of the long-range missiles is intended to demonstrate Washington's "commitment" to NATO and a contribution to "integrated European deterrence", specifying that "these conventional long-range units will include SM-6 (missiles), Tomahawk and state-of-the-art hypersonic weapons, with a significantly greater radius compared to current ground-based materials in Europe".

At the same time, the United States and four European countries - the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and Romania - announced on Wednesday that they would be sending anti-aircraft defense systems to Ukraine following the latest wave of Russian attacks that left 40 dead and 170 wounded, as part of the military invasion ordered in February 2022 by President Vladimir Putin.