Russia threatens to respond to US missiles with nuclear weapons

In yet another day of escalating rhetoric in the crisis between Russia and the West, aggravated by the Ukrainian War, Vladimir Putin's government has threatened to deploy new nuclear weapons aimed at Europe if the United States carries out its plan to move long-range missiles to Germany.

The spokesman for the intention was Deputy Chancellor Serguei Riabkov, responsible for nuclear negotiations, who has taken the lead in verbal fencing with the countries of NATO, the Western military alliance.

He was deliberately vague in his speech to the Interfax agency, without saying what this nuclear response would be about. In practice, it has already been given: there is no doubt that Russia has nuclear warheads on the western territory of Kaliningrad, between Lithuania and Poland, that can be fitted to Iskander-M missiles, which from there can reach as far as Berlin.

What matters in this case is the tension itself, which is already high with the succession of threats from both sides. During the NATO summit last week, the US announced that it would deploy Tomahawk cruise missiles, an offensive weapon, and SM-6 missiles, in a long-range air defense theory, on German soil from 2026.

These weapons had been vetoed by an agreement between the Americans and the Soviets in 1987, which was later abandoned by Donald Trump in 2018. Paradoxically, if the Republican returns to power in this year's elections, the greatest possibility is an accommodation with Putin.

Indeed, Russian Foreign Minister Serguei Lavrov praised the choice of Senator J.D. Vance as Trump's running mate. The Republican is against aid to Ukraine in the war and shares with the Russians an admiration for the autocratic Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán.

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova was more restrained. "We've seen the statements. It's necessary to separate pre-election rhetoric from statements made by authorities with powers. If we're going to talk about the possibility of resolving the conflict, let's be realistic."

On another front, the Kremlin criticized the European Union's idea of creating its own defense arm, parallel to NATO. For spokesman Dmitri Peskov, this proves "the militarization of the continent" against Russia.

He also said that his country "views with concern" the rumors that Romania and Bulgaria, the alliance countries bordering the Black Sea, may increase the concentration of warships in the region. Turkey is the main NATO member in those waters, but is closer to Moscow.

The Russian chancellery also played this card on Thursday, saying that the US military exercises with Armenia are aimed at destabilizing the region as a whole, and are targeted against the Russians, Yerevan's allies, the Iranians and the Turks - historical rivals of the Armenians.

The alliance said it plans to open a representative office in Kiev in September, before the departure of its long-serving secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg. The Norwegian will pass the baton to Dutchman Mark Rutte after ten years. The implications of this facility being targeted by the Russians are clear.

During a visit to a security conference in London, Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski once again asked his Western partners for permission to use their long-range weapons against Russian air bases.

The request has been denied by the US, which has allowed the use of its weapons against points in border regions involved in offensives against the Ukrainians, but only just. Last week, President Joe Biden said that it would be unimaginable to authorize attacks on cities or the Kremlin.

Zelenski has sought to counter this fear of escalation, potentially nuclear, by saying that all the red lines set by the Russians have been crossed without a very strong retaliation.

He also accused Orbán of treason. Close to Putin, the Hungarian is the current rotating president of the European Union and has used his position to promote what he calls a "peace mission", having talked to the Ukrainian as well as the Russian and Trump. For Zelenski, this means betraying Kiev and the European allies.

On the pitch, Ukraine experienced another violent day. In the east of the country, the Russians took yet another village in their advance on the Donetsk region, and Zelenski's Armed Forces made a rare admission of retreat to spare their troops.

On the other hand, military pressure on the Crimean peninsula, annexed by Putin in 2014 and the jewel in the crown of his project in the region, remains high. Ukraine claimed to have attacked a Black Sea Fleet base with water and air drones this morning, damaging installations.

The day before, Kiev had said that the last Russian warship in the fleet had been withdrawn from Crimea, where the military unit has been based since the 18th century. Moscow denied this, although the vulnerability of its naval forces in the region is clear.
