Drought in Manaus: Negro River reaches 3rd lowest level in history

The Negro River in Manaus reached its third lowest level this Friday, the 13th, at 13.93 meters. The level is 28 centimeters away from beating the record low recorded in 2010, when the river reached 13.63 meters.

With the low level, Manaus City Hall issued a note reinforcing the ban on Ponta Negra beach, which has been closed to bathers since October 2.

The decision to close the beach to bathing, for safety reasons and to prevent drowning, is due to the proximity between the end of the perennial embankment and the natural riverbed, which can present changes in the terrain, such as holes, unevenness and depressions.

Last Monday, October 9, the beach received a cerquite to physically delimit the no-bathing zone, with signs, 1.20 meters high and 1,500 meters long. This physical limitation is intended to prevent people from passing through and to raise awareness among those who insist on bathing in the river, in the banned section.

Climate change is altering the landscape in various parts of the country

The Negro River experienced a very rapid drop, with a reduction of more than 7 meters in its water column in just 20 days in September. The explanation lies in the El Niño phenomenon, which has prolonged the intensity of the drought in the Amazon.

The capital of Amazonas declared a state of emergency on September 28th because of the drought.

In addition, the municipality also recommended that the population refrain from physical activity. This is because Manaus is once again covered in smoke.

"I recommend not practicing sports. You can't breathe in carbon monoxide, which causes problems. As a result, we're postponing our city marathon, which was scheduled for the weekend. It's also necessary to avoid being exposed to smoke, to close the windows of houses, and hydration is essential at this time. Unfortunately, we are experiencing this as a result of climate change," said the mayor, David Almeida.
