Impunity marks 10 years since Boeing was shot down in Ukraine

One of the most important events in the long period of civil war in Ukraine leading up to the Russian invasion of 2022, the shooting down of a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 in the east of the country, marks ten years of impunity.

"Who fired the missile? Who gave the order?" asked Dutchman Piet Ploeg, the president of the foundation for the relatives of the 298 victims of the incident, in a videotaped message. He lost his brother, sister-in-law and nephew on the flight.

An international investigation, which was able to collect the wreckage of the plane, reached several consensuses. Firstly, that the anti-aircraft missile had been fired from a Soviet Buk system. Secondly, and more contentiously, the weapon had been launched from territory controlled by pro-Russian separatists in Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine.

In 2022, a Dutch court, the country of birth of 193 of the dead who flew from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur (capital of Malaysia), sentenced three people "in absentia" to life imprisonment for more general involvement in the downing: Russians Igor Girkin and Serguei Dubinski, as well as Ukrainian Leonid Khartchenko.

All of them worked with separatist forces in the region and, in the European country's version of justice, had worked to bring in, employ and then return the Buk to a Russian base in the region across the border.

The case was closed in 2023, but the Netherlands denounced Russia before the European Court of Human Rights, directly accusing President Vladimir Putin of having authorized the operation. Separately, the International Civil Aviation Agency is still investigating responsibility, with a view to a possible civil suit.

The Kremlin denies all the accusations, claiming that the trial was a Russophobic farce typical of the convulsed times in Europe. Since the beginning of the investigations, the Russians have tried to pin the blame on Ukraine.

First, they suggested that the missile that shot down the Boeing had been launched by a Kiev fighter jet. Then, that it was a Ukrainian anti-aircraft system that was responsible for the tragedy. With ties with the European Union severed due to the 2022 invasion, the chances of an agreed solution are nil. The then Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, a harsh critic of Putin, will now be secretary general of NATO (the Western military alliance).

The three convicted men live in Russia and will not be extradited - the most notorious of them, Girkin, ended up in disgrace for his criticism of Putin's conduct of the war and was sentenced to four years in jail this year for "inciting extremism".

For the victims' relatives, what remains are the doubts. "We will not rest until the truth is revealed," said Ploeg in the video.

Over the years, the report has heard versions of what might have happened from people with access to security information in Moscow. Most likely, they say, it was an operational error on the part of the separatists, who mistook the Boeing on the Buk's radar for a Ukrainian plane.

When the news of the plane's crash arrived, the initial reaction was shock and disbelief, given that Malaysia had lost an identical plane in the mysterious case of flight MH370, which had disappeared four months earlier after taking off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing with 239 people on board - a case that has still not been solved.

But soon the reality on the ground would set the tone for the outrage over what happened. Between the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, the pro-Russian government in Kiev faced protests and was overthrown. Putin reacted by annexing Crimea and inciting civil war in the Donbass, the region that includes the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.

For Ukrainian filmmaker Marina Er Gorbach, who used the shooting down of the plane as a backdrop in the award-winning "Klondike" (2023), the episode was the first warning shot about the seriousness of the crisis and yet it was ignored in the West.

Speaking to Folha last year, she said that the sanctions applied to Moscow in 2014 were too lax, leading to the escalation of the civil war, which killed around 14,000 people, and the full invasion eight years later.

The trauma of the inconclusive episode has spread to the commercial aviation industry. All you have to do is go to an air traffic monitoring website to see the black hole that has formed in the region, which is now widened by the war between neighbors.
