Bonn Conference: two hands full of nothing

Compared to COP28, the negotiations took place in a more structured way, without the confusion of the Green Zone, the hundreds of Pavilions and parallel events and with a much smaller participation of civil society - which, a priori, could indicate a greater appetite for debureaucratization and rapid negotiations. But this was not the case.

Around 6,000 participants from almost 200 countries gathered to address issues such as National Mitigation Plans (NDCs) and Adaptation Plans (NAPs), the Loss and Damage Fund, accelerating climate action through a just transition, Article 6 of the Paris Agreement (Carbon Markets) and the Transparency Framework. Climate finance, in particular the New Quantified Collective Climate Finance Target (NCQG), will be decided almost entirely at COP29 in Azerbaijan, making it the "elephant in the room".

Despite expectations based on the outcome of the COP28 Global Stocktaking on climate finance, SB60 represented a snail's pace in the climate negotiations and a serious omission in the face of the informal commitment to abandon fossil fuels. We returned home with two hands full of nothing and two hands full of everything for Azerbaijan.

The major agreements of the SB60 concerned the length of the texts presented for negotiation, and the structural division between the visions of the Developed Countries and the Developing Countries.

The current model of climate negotiations, known as the "Global Negotiating Process", has proven to be inefficient, bureaucratic and dominated by the Global North. Every year, negotiators meet to discuss and make decisions on how best to combat climate change. The working tools for the negotiations are the negotiating texts, based on written proposals submitted by governments. At the end of a negotiation, the President bangs the gavel to declare that a decision or a new treaty has been adopted. The COP is the supreme decision-making body of the climate change process and we are heading towards the 29th COP.

This inefficiency is all the more worrying given the year-on-year increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. There is an urgent need to rethink the traditional negotiating model and make it more efficient, accessible and transparent to civil society, guaranteeing a fair and equitable process that legally incorporates the needs of the countries on the front line.

At the very least: make it a real Climate Action body, otherwise it will become the "dinosaur" in the room. Nothing less will be enough to limit the planet's average temperature to 1.5 ºC.

