Russia says it is open to talks with Ukraine as long as Zelenskiy is in power, but needs more details

The Kremlin signaled this Thursday that it is open to negotiations with Ukraine to end the conflict while Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy remains in power, despite publicly doubting his legitimacy to rule.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Wednesday during a visit to China that Kiev was prepared for negotiations with Russia, provided that Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity were fully respected, although he said that Ukraine saw no sign of this.

The Kremlin, while signaling its readiness for talks on its own terms, has publicly questioned Zelenskiy's mandate to govern, pointing out that his five-year term expired in May and that he should have called an election.

Zelenskiy and the West claim that it is necessary to suspend normal political rules in wartime and that the Kremlin, given the tightly controlled Russian political system, is not in a position to criticize.

When asked this Thursday whether Russia would be ready to hold talks with Ukraine while Zelenskiy was in power, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists:

"Russia is generally open to a negotiation process. But first we have to understand how ready the Ukrainian side is for this and how much the Ukrainian side is allowed to do this by its manipulators."

Moscow describes Zelenskiy as a puppet of the United States, a characterization it rejects.

"Because so far you see very different statements being made, and that's still not very clear. Moreover, in addition to the problem with Zelenskiy's legitimacy, there is also a problem with the (Ukrainian) legal ban on having any contacts and negotiations with the Russian side. So there is still a lot to be clarified and clarifications to be heard," said Peskov.

Pressed during a teleconference whether the Kremlin could consider the possibility of negotiating with Zelenskiy or categorically ruled it out, Peskov said:

"The question is not easy. From a legal point of view, this problem (of his legitimacy) is on the agenda, but from a practical point of view, we are open to achieving our goals through negotiations. So different options are possible here."

Reuters reported in May that Putin was ready to stop the war in Ukraine with a negotiated ceasefire, but the Kremlin chief was prepared to continue fighting if Kiev and the West did not respond.

In June, Putin said that Russia would end the war in Ukraine, something he calls a special military operation, only if Kiev agreed to abandon its NATO ambitions and hand over the entirety of four provinces claimed by Moscow, demands that Kiev quickly rejected as tantamount to surrender.
