Ukraine: US Congress-linked agency calls for better tracking of arms shipments

Recommendations have been sent to the US Department of Defense regarding the need to ensure proper tracing of the route and use of US weapons in Ukraine. In January, Russia reported that illegal shipments had already been detected even in the Gaza Strip.

The US Government Accountability Office (GAO) has presented a series of recommendations to the Department of Defense to ensure the proper tracking and use of weapons delivered by the country to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, reports Reuters.

The auditing and oversight body is linked to the US Congress and, according to the report, weapons supplied by Washington take weeks to arrive in the country. In addition, the Pentagon does not provide clear guidelines on tracking these deliveries, and the military body's data is not necessarily accurate in this regard.

To ensure traceability, the GAO made eight recommendations, including improving the accuracy of supply data and evaluating the approach to controlling the end use of weapons in Ukraine.

In addition, it asks the Department of Defense to develop a procedure to help regularly assess and improve the accuracy of delivery data and to develop written guidelines to document roles and responsibilities.

The Pentagon rejected the recommendation to clarify guidelines for documenting alleged arms end-use violations, although it accepted five points of the suggested measures and partially accepted two others.

Last month it was reported that Pentagon investigators had opened more than 50 criminal investigations into "procurement fraud, product substitution, theft, fraud or corruption and detour" of US aid to Ukraine.

Western weapons in Gaza

Ukrainian weapons supplied by the West can be found not only in the Gaza Strip, but also in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in January.

"The weapons that the West supplies to the Ukrainian regime have been found not only in the conflict zones in the Middle East, but illegal shipments have already been detected in Finland, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Gaza Strip," said the minister during his speech at an event on the situation around Ukraine.
