"The fight against climate change is not on the table". Climáximo youth interrupts party leaders' debate

The debate between the eight party leaders had been underway for four minutes when it was interrupted by a young man from the Climáximo activist movement. "The fight against climate change is not at the polling station, it's in the hands of the people," shouted the protester, who invaded the studio that RTP had set up at Nova SBE University in Carcavelos and placed himself in front of the moderator, journalist Carlos Daniel.

The young man was immediately removed by a member of the production team, at a time when Pedro Nuno Santos, leader of the PS, was explaining the scenarios he advocates for the country's governability after the legislative elections on March 10.

Shortly afterwards, when PSD president Luís Montenegro was being questioned, more voices were heard in the background from protesters, which led Carlos Daniel to say that there were still some protests "from some people who felt that this was the moment to bring their message to the public space". "It's no longer a novelty in the country, but we're going to keep the debate on schedule," he added.

The Climáximo protesters also painted the windows behind the candidates with red paint. In a statement to which Observador had access, the group said that the protest was "intended to interrupt the normality of electoral debates that ignore the climate crisis and whose plans" lead "to climate collapse: water shortages for people, breakdowns in agriculture and food production, deaths due to unbearable heatwaves, displacement due to deadly fires".

António Assunção, spokesperson for Climáximo, says that "in these elections, not only is stopping the climate crisis not the main issue, but no party - with or without a parliamentary seat - is presenting a plan that is compatible with the limits of nature". "Not implementing" cuts of "at least" 75% in emissions by 2030 is "guaranteeing climate and civilizational collapse", she believes.

"We cannot allow them to continue taking us to climate hell. All parties premeditatedly reiterate the declaration of war against the people. Society must resist and fight to stop the climate crisis," adds the spokesperson, who reiterates that the group believes that an "alternative" to stop the climate crisis is "on the streets, not at the ballot box".

In the statement released this Friday, Climáximo recalls that over the last week it has been altering the billboards of various parties, putting up the phrase "with your vote we guarantee climate collapse".

The Observer is awaiting a response from the RTP. The authorities are already at the scene, about an hour after the incident. The Carcavelos PSP, in a previous telephone call, said it could not provide any information about the possible arrest of the demonstrators.