Marina Silva receives award in BH and asks Congress to support the environment

Brazil's Minister of State for the Environment and Climate Change, Marina Silva, received the Hugo Werneck Award for Environmentalist of the Year at a ceremony this Tuesday (2) at the Convention Center of the Belo Horizonte Shopkeepers Club (CDL -BH). During the ceremony, the manager asked for the support of the National Congress with the agenda related to environmental preservation and revealed that the federal government hopes to double the resources available for the Climate Fund.

"The government needs to overcome the difficulties with Congress, which has an understanding that certain structures are a cost. I don't think it's a cost, it's an investment. The climate authority will help with the challenge of climate extremes. Right here in Minas Gerais, we are living with torrential rains and rising temperatures," said the minister.

Marina Silva said that the government of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) will work "within budgetary possibilities" to build "new structures" related to environmental preservation. "Civil society and the scientific community are doing their part. It's governments and companies that aren't doing it," he said.

Climate Fund

The minister also commented on the Climate Fund, a Brazilian government instrument created to finance projects, studies and undertakings aimed at reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapting to the effects of climate change. The initiative already has 10 billion reais in resources and, according to Marina, the government's expectation is to expand it to 20 billion reais.

"The Climate Fund is for the whole country. There are 10 billion euros for projects in the area of urban mobility, mainly electrification of urban fleets, reforestation and water resources, bioeconomy, infrastructure for sustainable development. We are investing in the new economy. Projects aimed at tackling climate change," he said.

Municipalization of environmental preservation actions

Journalist and environmentalist Hiram Firmino, creator of the Hugo Werneck Prize, classifies the environmental issue as revolutionary and defends the participation of municipalities in the agenda. "The world has changed, because pain is pedagogical. People are feeling climate change on their skin. We're talking about the municipalization of environmental management," he says.

Hugo Werneck Award

The Hugo Werneck Award, created in 2010, is a national benchmark in the fight for environmental preservation. It recognizes and publicizes the best projects, cases and actions in favour of the environment and sustainability, with over a thousand applications and 170 winners and honorees.

The award has become a landmark in the Brazilian environmental calendar, raising awareness in society of the importance of protecting the planet and fighting climate change.

Inspired by the legacy of Hugo Werneck (1919-2008), one of the forerunners of ecological awareness in Latin America, the award encourages society's participation in building a greener future.

