Supporting deployment of NATO troops, alliance member calls for end to 'red lines' in Ukraine

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Wednesday called on Ukraine's allies to stop "drawing red lines" in terms of what they are prepared to do to support Kiev.

While speaking at the Paris Defense and Strategy Forum, Nauseda made his comments based on French President Emmanuel Macron's statements when he suggested sending NATO troops to Ukraine.

Macron backed down a little a few days later after the reaction of his allies, but then said that now was not the time "to be a coward in Europe".

The Lithuanian leader said he welcomed the debate opened by the French leader on sending troops.

"I welcomed the idea of sending missions to Ukrainian territory and I think we should discuss it. Of course, it would be better if we all unanimously agreed on the need for this and evaluated very well the intelligence and other information we have obtained," said Nauseda, according to Newsweek.

The Lithuanian president also stressed that the fear of a possible reaction from the Kremlin should not be a determining factor in taking a common European decision.

"If we start saying 'no, [Russian President] Vladimir Putin won't like this or that [...]' we will never make a decision. And that's why yesterday [12] I told the president [Emmanuel Macron] and the media that we have to stop drawing red lines for ourselves," he added.

He stressed that by drawing red lines, the West is only helping Putin "who is beginning to think that we are predictable and manipulable," he added.

It's not the first time that Nauseda has made comments of this kind, in January last year he said that "red lines must be crossed to supply Ukraine with fighter jets and missiles", according to state broadcaster LRT.

Moscow has already made it clear that any shipment that includes weapons destined for Kiev will become a legitimate target for the Russian Armed Forces on the battlefield. At the same time, President Vladimir Putin has already warned the West of the consequences of sending troops into Ukrainian territory.
