Woman dies of 'paralyzing virus' after being bitten by a mosquito in Spain

Granada Romero Ruiz, 86, died after being in hospital for nine days in Seville, Spain, after being bitten by a mosquito and contracting the "paralyzing" West Nile virus. The elderly woman's son, Antonio Pineda, said that she was in perfect health before she was bitten.

"She had no latent health problems, she was healthy, active and living a normal life," he told local media. Tragically, this is not the first time that the virus has affected the lives of the Granada family. Her husband contracted the virus in 2016.

In a statement on X published alongside a photo of Granada holding a beer, the town hall of La Puebla del Rio, a municipality in Seville, said it regretted what had happened and that it was working "tirelessly so that all administrations do everything possible, sparing no expense, against the virus and that there is a permanent service against mosquitoes".

New outbreaks of the "paralyzing" West Nile virus

The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) says there have been new outbreaks in parts of Greece and Italy and warns against the deadly virus.

"Europe is already seeing how climate change is creating more favorable conditions for invading mosquitoes to spread to previously unaffected areas and infect more people," said ECDC director Andrea Ammon.

Who is at risk?

According to health professionals, people over the age of 50 who have diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure or cancer are at greater risk of contracting the disease.

Which mosquito transmits the West Nile virus?

The Asian tiger mosquito - known to transmit several diseases, including West Nile - has been detected in the UK on several occasions since 2016.

The mosquito, known for the black and white stripes along its body and legs, can transmit several tropical diseases, including dengue, Zika and chikungunya.

What are the symptoms of West Nile disease?

The symptoms of the disease are similar to those of the flu (such as fever, body aches and headache), rash and feeling unwell.

Others may experience muscle weakness, confusion, loss of vision, numbness, neck stiffness, diarrhea and convulsions.

What is the treatment for West Nile disease?

Treatment usually involves rest, hydration and over-the-counter painkillers.

Severe cases need to be treated in hospitals, as they can lead to meningitis (inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord) and encephalitis (inflammation of the brain), warns the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

