Brazil Fund supports projects for traditional communities

The notice Traditional Communities Fighting for Climate Justice has been open since Monday (27) and interested parties can submit projects until January 31, 2024. Applications must be made on the organization's website. Proposals can involve topics such as the right to land, productive alternatives, training activities, among others.

Traditional communities will be considered to be culturally differentiated groups, characterized by their own forms of social organization and which relate to their territories and natural resources as a fundamental condition for their cultural, social, economic and spiritual reproduction. This includes indigenous peoples, andirobeiras, evergreen gatherers, caatingueiros, mangaba pickers, quilombolas, extractivists, riverside dwellers, caiçaras, gypsies, terreiro peoples, cipozeiros, castanheiras, faxinalenses, fundo e fecho de pasto, geraizeiros, isqueiros, morroquianos, pantaneiros, artisanal fishermen, piaçabeiros, pomeranos, babaçu coconut breakers, retiriros, seringueiros, vazanteiros and veredeiros.

The Fund points out that these communities have been greatly affected by the advance of the exploitation of biomes observed in Brazil in recent years, with the growth of illegal occupations and agrarian conflicts. It also notes that they are also impacted by their vulnerability to the consequences of climate change, such as drought or excessive rainfall depending on the region and the time of year.

"Supporting the ways of life of traditional communities also means guaranteeing sustainable practices, preserving biodiversity and promoting the resilience of ecosystems, as part of a broad strategy for climate and environmental justice covered by this notice," says the organization.

New calls for proposals

According to the Brazil Human Rights Fund, the call for proposals is the first to be launched by Raízes - Climate Justice Fund for Traditional Peoples and Communities, a line of support that is expected to allocate at least R$6 million over the next three years to strengthen groups, communities and grassroots organizations that work to defend their rights and protect territories and natural resources. New calls for proposals will be announced at a later date.
