Faced with wave of fires, Lula announces creation of Climate Authority

The creation of the new structure was a campaign promise made by Lula when he endorsed Marina Silva, the current Environment Minister, for his 2022 candidacy.

- Our focus needs to be on adaptation and preparation for dealing with these phenomena (extreme climate risks). To this end, we are going to establish a climate authority and a technical-scientific committee to support and articulate the implementation of the federal government's actions - said the president, during a meeting with mayors to announce measures to combat drought in the state, in an excerpt read from his speech.

Lula added that the "objective is to establish the conditions for expanding and accelerating public policies based on a national plan for dealing with extreme climate risks".

According to the proposal put forward in the election, the National Authority for Climate Change would have the objective of monitoring the measures taken by the government to reduce the emission of gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect. After the victory, the proposal was set aside. One of the reasons given was budgetary constraints.

Lula traveled to Amazonas accompanied by ministers Rui Costa (Civil House), Marina Silva (Environment), José Múcio Monteiro (Defense), Nizia Trindade (Health), Wellington Dias (Social Development) and Silvio Costa Filho (Ports and Airports).

The president announced an investment of 81.8 million euros in dredging the rivers of the state of Amazonas, to facilitate navigation in the middle of the drought. He also promised to pave a 20-kilometer stretch of the BR-319 highway, at a cost of 25.8 million euros.

During his speech, Lula also criticized the administration of his predecessor Jair Bolsonaro (PL).

"The previous plan for the environment was clear; it was to open the gate to let the cattle through. And we think we can even raise cattle, but we don't need to destroy the forest and our planet to raise them. So we're treating it very decently."

The Amazon has seen below-average rainfall since July. In recent weeks, the fires have led to towns and even indigenous territories being engulfed in smoke. On August 27, 1,516 fires were recorded in the Amazon, according to the monitoring panel of the National Institute for Space Research (INPE): 39% in Pará, 29% in Amazonas, 12% in Acre, 10% in Rondônia and 8% in Mato Grosso.

In July, the Amazon experienced its worst July since the historical series of fires began in 1998. In addition to deforestation, the biome is suffering from a severe drought for the second year running.
