India: heatwave reportedly caused at least 24 deaths in 24 hours

A strong heatwave in the eastern Indian states of Bihar and Odisha may have caused the deaths of at least 24 people from heatstroke, local authorities have said. This extreme weather phenomenon is expected to continue until Saturday.

India has been battered by an extremely hot summer and a part of the capital, Delhi, this week recorded the highest temperature ever in the country, at 52.9 degrees Celsius, although this figure may be revised after the meteorological department checks the sensors of the weather station that recorded the reading.

Although temperatures in northwestern and central India are expected to drop over the next few days, the heatwave prevailing in eastern India is expected to continue for two days, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which declares a heatwave when the temperature is 4.5 to 6.4 degrees Celsius higher than normal.

Fourteen people died in Bihar on Thursday, officials said, including ten people who were working on organizing the seven-phase national elections that are underway. Citizens in some parts of Bihar will vote this Saturday. Authorities told Reuters that ten people died at the government hospital in Odisha's Rourkela region on Thursday.

The Odisha government has banned outdoor activities for its employees between 11am and 3pm, when temperatures peak.

Three people have died of suspected heatstroke in the state of Jharkhand, neighboring Bihar, local media reported.

Animals in pain

In Delhi, where high temperatures have caused wild birds and monkeys to faint or fall ill, the city's zoo is resorting to swimming pools and sprinklers to relieve its 1,200 occupants.

"We have switched to a summer diet, which includes a more liquid diet as well as all seasonal fruits and vegetables that contain more water," Sanjeet Kumar, director of the zoo, told the ANI news agency.

New Delhi, where temperatures are expected to reach 43 degrees Celsius on Friday, recorded its first heat-related death this week and is facing a severe water shortage.

Thousands of people across Asia, including in neighboring Pakistan, have been battling rising temperatures - a trend that scientists say has been exacerbated by human-caused climate change.

India, which is holding its national elections amid the heat, is the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases, but has set itself the goal of carbon neutrality by 2070.

While the heat affects parts of the country, the northeastern states of Manipur and Assam were hit by heavy rains following cyclone Remal, with several areas flooded on Friday.

Monsoon rains also hit the coast of Kerala state, in the far south of the country, on Thursday, two days ahead of schedule.