Southern region has 7 out of 10 cyclone alerts in Brazil in the last ten years

Submerged houses in Lajeado (RS) this Wednesday (6) after the passage of a cyclone.

Recently affected by the formation of an extratropical cyclone in Rio Grande do Sul that killed more than 40 people, the southern region of the country has registered 71 of the 92 alerts issued to the federal government in the last ten years due to this natural phenomenon.

G1 analyzed data from the Integrated Disaster Information System, which receives daily alerts from Brazilian municipalities about the effects of natural phenomena. The system is linked to the Ministry of Integration and Regional Development.

The South accounts for 77% of the alerts, due to the state of Santa Catarina, which recorded 64 occurrences between January 2013 and August 2023. In the same period, there were five occurrences in Rio Grande do Sul and two in Paran치.

The city with the most cyclones was Balne치rio Barra do Sul (SC), with 13 episodes. See below for a map of all the municipalities that have issued a cyclone alert to the federal government in the last decade.

Why in the South?

Climatempo meteorologist F치bio Luengo explains that the southern states are historically more affected by extratropical cyclones due to their location in a zone where air masses meet.

"It's a region that has a greater thermal contrast between the hot, humid air (coming from the north) and the cold air coming from the south [of the planet]," he explains.

What is unusual, says Luengo, is the intensity and frequency that these natural phenomena have gained. This week's extratropical cyclone, for example, marked the biggest natural tragedy in the history of Rio Grande do Sul.

He mentions three factors that explain this increase in extreme weather events.

- Climate change, caused by human action on the planet, which increases the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events;

- Warming of the Atlantic Ocean, a process that is also more intense and frequent due to climate change;

- The action of the climatic phenomenon known as "El Ni침o", which, among other effects, causes excessive rainfall in the south and southeast of the country.
