G20 Summit. The challenges facing world leaders in managing peace, debt and climate

The world leaders of the G20 will meet for a two-day summit - on September 9 and 10 - organized by the Indian Presidency of the G20 in New Delhi. Under the slogan "One Earth - One Family - One Future", deep differences over Russia's war in Ukraine, debt restructuring and the phasing out of fossil fuels will be debated in a tense atmosphere, which will make it difficult to reach a common declaration on Sunday.

Joe Biden, Rishi Sunak, Emmanuel Macron and other G20 leaders will be in New Delhi for the 18th Group of 20 summit.

Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin will not be present, leaving national representation to Li Qiang, the Chinese Premier, who will lead the Chinese delegation and Sergei Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, who will lead the Russian delegation.

Narendra Modi, the Prime Minister of India - the host country of the annual meeting - hopes to assert the country's growing diplomatic influence and facilitate dialogue on the issues that divide the G20: Russia's war in Ukraine and climate change.

The lack of consensus on the war in Ukraine threatens to derail the meeting, hindering progress on issues such as food security, debt restructuring and cooperation on climate change.

"The cost of inaction will be catastrophic"

The G20 Summit is taking place while "the world is on a knife edge. The climate crisis is inflicting immense damage on people, the human rights of billions of people are under threat," said Agnès Callamard, Secretary General of Amnesty International, in a statement this week.

According to Amnesty International, "it is vital that the G20 recognizes the magnitude and urgency of these crises and acts quickly to stop climate and debt disasters from escalating," otherwise "the cost of inaction will be catastrophic," she added.

At the previous G20 summit in November 2022, organized by the Indonesian G20 presidency in Bali, leaders discussed the impact of Russia's war against Ukraine on the world economy, and in particular food and energy security.

Despite having issued a joint declaration, Amnesty International considers that it has so far not been honored and calls for its fulfillment, as well as the adoption of new commitments.

This G20 summit comes ahead of other key occasions when countries will be meeting again, such as the high-level week of the United Nations General Assembly and the UN Secretary-General's Climate Ambition Summit later this month, both in New York, as well as the COP28 climate meeting in Dubai, which starts on November 30.