Young people take a leading role in environmental discussions

Three out of four young people aged between 16 and 25 consider the "climate future to be frightening" and fear that world leaders will fail to implement effective measures. The data comes from the Young People's Voices on Climate Anxiety, Government Betrayal and Moral Injury: A Global Phenomenon survey, which interviewed 10,000 people from countries such as the USA, India, France, Nigeria and Brazil in September. The survey also showed that 45% of these young people feel distressed, overwhelmed, anxious and guilty about the environment.

These are figures that explain and reflect the leading role that young people are claiming - still forcibly - in decisions to combat the climate crisis. "Our leaders are not our leaders. This is what a leader should look like," said Greta Thunberg, pointing to the thousands of young people listening to her in Glasgow.

In Glasgow, young people from all over the world called for more participation and representation in the negotiations. A declaration signed by 40,000 of them was delivered to the COP presidency and other leaders. "The actions and scrutiny of young people are crucial if we are to keep the 1.5 degrees Celsius target alive and create an emissions-free future," said Alok Sharma, President of the Conference.

There were around 80 young people in the Brazilian delegation, the largest youth representation to date. And the only Brazilian to take part in the COP-26 opening ceremony was Txai Suruí, a 24-year-old indigenous woman. She shared the stage with António Guterres, the UN Secretary General, and Boris Johnson, the British Prime Minister, and addressed diplomats from over 190 countries.

In his speech, Txai cited the murder of Ari Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau, his friend and indigenous guardian killed in 2020 for protecting nature, and warned of the urgency of change. "Today the weather is getting warmer; the animals are disappearing; the rivers are dying; our crops don't flourish like they used to. The Earth is speaking. It's telling us that we don't have any more time."

TESTIMONIAL

Eduarda Zoghbi, political scientist at UnB and master's student at Columbia (USA)

The new generations' search for more space

"When I was 16, I was at COP-15 in Copenhagen. I couldn't get in, I stayed outside. There was no space for young people. In 2016, there were ten of us in the Brazilian youth delegation. This year, there were 80 of us, in the most diverse youth delegation we've ever had. There wasn't one indigenous young person, there were ten. There wasn't one young black person, there were ten. We had trans women, young people from different regions of Brazil."
