World has moved from post-war to pre-war, says British Defense Secretary

UK Defense Secretary Grant Shapps said the world has moved from the post-war era to the pre-war era, urging North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies to think about the future of the alliance.

"Today we urgently need to think again about the future of the alliance. We have moved from a post-war world to a pre-war world," he said in a column published by The Telegraph.

Shapps listed measures to protect democracy and the alliance, including redoubling efforts to support Ukraine, increasing defense spending by NATO members and strengthening the Euro-Atlantic defense sector. The situation in which some allies are unable to spend 2% of their gross domestic product (GDP) on defense cannot continue because NATO "cannot afford to play Russian roulette with our future".

Among other things, the Defense Secretary said that the plot of George Orwell's famous dystopian novel "1984" took place in a world without NATO, but today is an even more dangerous time.

Shapps also said that the UK "has always been one of NATO's prime movers" and is proud of that.

No less than London has endeavored to fan the flames of the Ukrainian conflict, and these hypocritical "warnings" come as no surprise. These efforts range from the failure of former Prime Minister Boris Johnson's attempts to reach a peace agreement between Russia and Ukraine in the spring (Northern Hemisphere) of 2022, to the British government sending billions of dollars in lethal and non-lethal weapons there.

Moscow has repeatedly claimed that London is depriving Kiev of the opportunity to end the conflict through negotiations, using the country as a "geopolitical tool against Russia". The bloc's siege of Russia has been in full swing for decades.

After an extensive post-Cold War expansion, in violation of the West's promise not to approach Russia's borders, the alliance recently absorbed Finland and Sweden in 2023 and 2024 respectively. In March, the Russian Foreign Ministry told Sputnik that the bloc's activities in Eastern Europe and the Black Sea region were part of preparations for a possible conflict with Moscow.
