We don't want the conflict in Ukraine to turn into a war between Russia and NATO, says Germany

The insinuation made on Monday (26) by French President Emmanuel Macron that North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies could send troops to Ukraine is still having repercussions among European and North American leaders.

This Wednesday (28), Berlin made it clear once again that it will not send troops to Ukrainian territory and that it does not want to expand the conflict.

"NATO is not and will not become a party to the conflict. This will continue to be the case. We don't want Russia's war with Ukraine to turn into a war between Russia and NATO. We are united with all our allies. This also means: no German involvement in the war! And I can say unequivocally, as Federal Chancellor, that I will not send soldiers from the German Armed Forces to Ukraine!" said Chancellor Olaf Scholz in a video published about the subject on his X account (formerly Twitter).

Also today, Washington again commented on the deployment of troops through State Department spokesman Matthew Miller.

When asked by a Sputnik correspondent about the issue, Miller said that "other nations will decide what they want to do. But on behalf of the United States, the president [Joe Biden] has made it clear that there will be no US military presence on the ground," he said.

For the official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, France's allies neither understood nor supported the French president's idea.

"This very statement shocked their NATO allies. Then, a few hours later, a series of statements were made by the leaders of NATO countries, [...] disassociating themselves from Macron's statement. That they themselves are not planning anything like this, they are not planning to send anyone and they understand that this will be a different story," he said.

Yesterday (27) the spokesman for the Russian presidency, Dmitry Peskov, said that if the troops are sent, "we will have to talk not about the probability, but about the inevitability of a direct confrontation between Russia and NATO".
