Russia 'has been successful' in fighting US hegemony in Latin America, says analyst

Russia's soft power in combating US hegemony in Latin America "has been successful", historian and international analyst Daniel Trujillo Sanz told Sputnik, commenting on Russian President Vladimir Putin's annual message.

In his annual message to the Federal Assembly on Thursday (29), Putin advocated strengthening relations with Latin American countries. He added that it was important for Russia to look for new points of convergence and deepen the whole range of partnerships, especially with Arab and South American counterparts.

As for the president's speech, Sanz said that "we saw a sober, concise and direct speech from President Putin, as always, clearly structured". The analyst drew parallels between the words of the Russian head of state and those of Western leaders, "whose criteria seem to change every day".

"We can refer to [French President Emmanuel] Macron as an example. One day he leads a rebellion against NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization], another day he proposes sending French forces to Ukraine and practically starting a war," he emphasized.

The analyst also gave other examples of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO. He also drew attention to Germany's attitude "towards the terrible and extremely serious sabotage it suffered in its national interest with the Nord Stream explosion".

Still on the subject of Latin America, Sanz added that it must be admitted that the United States "continues to have hegemony or at least primacy in this regard".

"Culture, music, lifestyle and clothing were clearly established during the era of globalization and, in this respect, Russia must overcome decades of influence, especially on the Latin American continent and in other parts of the world. I consider it absolutely necessary for Russia to start entering this fight, despite the difficulties they will face."

On February 29, Vladimir Putin delivered his annual message to the Federal Assembly. The president took stock of the situation in the country and outlined the main lines of action in domestic and foreign policy for the next six years.
