Spain is the latest country to refuse to send European troops to Ukraine

Spain does not agree with the French proposal to send European ground troops to Ukraine, Spanish government spokeswoman Pilar Alegría told a press conference on Tuesday (27).

"We don't agree," she said, when asked about Madrid's position. According to her, it is necessary to speed up the delivery of arms to Kiev, which has seen a drastic reduction in ammunition.

French President Emmanuel Macron commented earlier that the leaders of Western countries had discussed the possibility of sending military personnel to Ukraine. He admitted that there was no consensus on the issue, but that the situation could change.

German Foreign Minister Olaf Scholz again ruled it out, as did Poland and the Czech Republic. Asked about Macron's comments, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his Polish counterpart Donald Tusk said that sending soldiers would not be an option.

The day before, the Prime Minister of Slovakia, Robert Fico, also stated that sending troops from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union would only lead to an escalation of the conflict. He also said that his country would not take such a step.

According to the French leader, the important thing was to "show Russia that Western support for Ukraine will not end".

Since February 24, 2022, Russia has maintained a special military operation in Ukraine, the objectives of which, according to Russian President Vladimir Putin, are to protect the population from "genocide by Kiev" and to tackle the risks to national security posed by NATO's eastward advance.

Moscow has frequently warned that NATO is "playing with fire" by sending weapons to Ukraine and that shipments containing any military equipment would be considered "legitimate targets" for the Russian Army.

The United States and NATO, according to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, are directly involved in the conflict in Ukraine - not only by sending weapons, but also by training personnel in the UK, Germany, Italy and other countries.
