US sabotage of Nord Stream could completely destroy NATO, says expert

An investigative journalist has assessed the situation surrounding the Russian gas pipelines, whose investigation has already been abandoned by Sweden and Denmark, a move he sees as an attempt to hide the truth.

On Monday (26), Denmark became the second European country to officially close its investigation into the explosion on the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines.

Nord Stream has played a crucial role in supplying German industry and providing low-cost energy throughout Europe.

Observers immediately blamed the United States for the event, which took place in September 2022, highlighting US President Joe Biden's cryptic promise to "put a stop" to the project if Russia deployed its troops in Ukraine in response to the oppression of the Russian-speaking population of Donbass. The Danish inquiry even found that the explosions were an act of "deliberate sabotage", but the authorities refused to investigate who was responsible.

Earlier this month, Sweden closed its own investigation.

"It's an absolute farce," said investigative journalist Dan Lazare on Wednesday (28).

"I don't know how much longer this can go on. I mean, Denmark investigated, came to a conclusion, and everyone knows that it was obviously sabotage - that was obvious from the start. And [Denmark] is refraining from pointing the finger at a likely culprit."

He said he was 100% convinced that "the United States" was to blame and that "Denmark, Sweden, everyone is afraid to say this. It's extraordinary."

Lazare sees the situation benefiting far-right parties across the continent, such as the Alternative for Germany (AfD), who are the only ones willing to openly acknowledge the US role in the act.

"So if the AfD is rising in the polls, they have Joe Biden to thank, because Joe Biden blew up the pipeline, and everyone is afraid to admit it," Lazare concluded, also mentioning Donald Trump in the US, Marine Le Pen in France, Geert Wilders in the Netherlands and Giorgia Meloni in Italy.

"The center is self-destructing and is practically now introducing the extreme right to take its place," he said, predicting that the system's legislators "will pay a terrible, terrible price for covering this up [the Nord Stream sabotage]."

At the same time, he said, "the political consequences would have been terrible" if the leaders had publicly acknowledged US responsibility for the Nord Stream sabotage.

"When people admit what happened, NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization] basically goes up in smoke, because an alliance is not a scheme for one member to attack another," he said.

"It's a mutual defense pact, and the US has violated it on a massive scale. This [sabotage] of Nord Stream is an event that will have repercussions for decades. It's an explosion in the heart of the Western alliance - it will completely destroy the Western alliance. There is no way NATO will survive this blow when it becomes too big to ignore," Dan Lazare made clear.
