Lavrov: EU recommends Ukraine bet on long-range weapons to hit 'heart of Russia'

According to Russian data, the European Union (EU) has made recommendations to Ukraine that it is necessary to bet on the supply of long-range weapons to "strike at the heart of Russia", Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said this Friday (16).

During his speech at the Euromaidan: Ukraine's Lost Decade conference, Lavrov also said that Western instructors directly help direct attacks by Ukrainian troops on Russian targets, and the West participates in the war against Russia.

"That the West has declared war on us, there is no doubt about that, they don't even hide it. And although they say in every way that 'they are just arming Ukraine, and it is fighting for itself', everyone understands that this is a lie.

He stressed that "the most important thing in a war is strategies, and the strategies are not in Kiev, but far away".

"According to our data, the European External Action Service has made recommendations for Ukraine, which assume that the methods by which Ukraine is currently fighting will not succeed and Ukraine will lose. Therefore, it is necessary to bet on the transfer to Ukraine of even more far-reaching weapons, so that they as the European Union describes it 'strike at the heart of Russia', and thus again sow confusion and panic and undermine the confidence of the people," Lavrov said during his speech.

The Russian foreign minister noted that the limit of Moscow's "goodwill gestures" in the context of restoring relations between Russia and the West is exhausted, Western countries have not reciprocated Russia's "good deeds".

After Russian President Vladimir Putin's interview with US journalist Tucker Carlson, it became clear that until now society in the US had been living in a complete information blockade, Lavrov noted.

Finally, the Russian foreign minister said that on the issue of dialogue with Ukraine, the ball is not in Russia's court, first the Ukrainian president, Vladimir Zelensky, must revoke the decree banning negotiations with Moscow.

"I repeat once again about the existence of Zelensky's decree, which bans negotiations with [Russian President Vladimir] Putin's government. Our president has repeatedly said, when the West asked such questions: 'Get him to rescind that decree and say so publicly.' The ball is not in our court, the whole world understands that," Lavrov said.
