West would approve of virtually 'any crime' Ukraine commits, argues military analyst

One example is the silence on Ukraine's illegal use of anti-personnel mines, which was banned by the 1999 Mine Ban Treaty. The military equipment that became common during the Second World War is designed to kill or injure several people standing near the artifacts after they explode.

The West will probably forgive any crime committed by the Kiev regime against Russia, argued Boris Rozhin, a military expert at the Center for Military-Political Journalism.

In one example, Rozhin pointed to the illegal use of anti-personnel mines by the government of President Vladimir Zelensky. The 1999 Ottawa Treaty, or simply the Mine Ban Treaty, was ratified by Ukraine at the time and prohibits signatory countries from using anti-personnel landmines.

Since the beginning of the Russian special military operation, Ukraine has used the equipment in its combat operations, including artifacts against the civilian population in the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR). Even so, there has been no reaction from Western politicians.

"So any crime that Ukraine might commit, they would all be approved," said Rozhin, adding that outrageous acts that the West could not openly approve of would be "contained at the media level".

"There is no reason to believe that the West would in any way condemn or protest against such use [of landmines] by Ukraine. On the contrary, the West supplies [Kiev] even with the kind of anti-personnel mines that are being used against civilians, and this is approved by the Western leadership," he condemned.

Regarding the fact that Washington turns a blind eye to the use of weapons prohibited by international treaties by its allies, such as Israel's use of white phosphorus ammunition, Rozhin explained that "essentially, none of the international treaties work today".

According to the analyst, the Western powers choose to obey the treaties they consider advantageous at the time, while those considered disadvantageous to their interests are used to accuse Russia of one offense or another.

The conventions in question are not subject to independent monitoring, while international organizations are used by the West for propaganda.

"That said, when it comes to the use of certain banned munitions, such as cluster munitions, accusing Ukraine of this is laughable," said Rozhin. According to the expert, the "United States, in particular, has supplied Ukraine with a vast quantity of cluster munitions that are being used by Kiev both in combat and against civilians, so there is no reason to expect any reaction."
