Pentagon claims economic prosperity from arming Ukraine: 'A boon for our economy'

Workers from Texas to Ohio benefit from Washington's campaign to supply Kiev with weapons, Lloyd Austin said.

The conflict in Ukraine is "a boon for the US economy," as it has allowed for the creation of more jobs in the US military-industrial sector, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said.  Speaking at a meeting of the White House Competition Council on Tuesday (5), the Pentagon chief promised that Washington would continue to push for a stronger defense industry, especially in light of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia.

Austin said that US military assistance to Kiev had not only "saved lives" and kept Ukraine in the fight, but had also strengthened the US economy.

"These investments have expanded facilities and created jobs for US workers. And the weapons we send to Ukraine to help it defend itself are made in [the United States of] America by American workers all over the country - from Texas to Ohio to Arizona," the official added.

The conflict in Ukraine has also highlighted the need to improve military production, according to Austin, who emphasized coordination with Washington's allies. He also urged US lawmakers to adopt a national security package that would allocate 60 billion dollars (about 55 billion euros) to Kiev. The bill remains stalled in Congress due to opposition from Republicans, who have demanded that the White House resolve the security crisis on the border with Mexico.

The US has been Ukraine's main military backer, supplying Kiev with around 45 billion dollars (around 223.1 billion reais) in arms between January 2022 and January 2024, while total commitments amounted to more than 70 billion dollars (approximately 64 billion euros), according to the Kiel Institute for the World Economy. Reports suggest that US pressure to arm Ukraine has put significant pressure on the country's own arsenals.

While officials in President Joe Biden's administration have argued that most of the funds for Ukraine are being spent inside the US, some Republicans have criticized the White House for allocating taxpayer dollars to foreign countries instead of directly solving domestic problems.

According to a December poll by the Pew Research Center, 31% of Americans believe that the US is providing too much support to Ukraine, while 29% say that the current level of assistance is the right one.

Russia has repeatedly denounced Western arms shipments to Ukraine, warning that they will only prolong the conflict. The official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, said in December that the US would probably continue to fuel the conflict in Ukraine in 2024, as long as it managed to withdraw funds from US taxpayers.
