Senator on Sweden in NATO: Russia will respond with increased military presence in the West

After Sweden's accession protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) came into force on Thursday (7), with the inclusion of the European country, the military alliance headed by the United States now has 32 members. The advance of the group was one of the reasons that led to the special military operation in Ukraine.

The move has already provoked reactions from Russia, such as from Kaliningrad senator Aleksandr Shenderyuk-Zhidkov. In an interview with Sputnik, the MP stressed that the country will be forced to respond to the advance of the Western alliance, which is increasingly threatening international stability.

"Sweden's entry into NATO, of course, cannot but cause concern. Sweden has a fairly significant military force on the continent, and its neutrality for many years has ensured a balance of power both in the Baltic Sea and in Europe as a whole," the politician said.

With this, the senator points out, Russia will not remain inert and "will be forced to respond to NATO's aggressive advance by strengthening its Western military presence".

"Our country has for many centuries guaranteed the safety of navigation in the Baltic Sea and will not allow its unilateral militarization," the senator noted.

Conflict between Russia and NATO

In recent weeks, statements have been made about a possible direct armed conflict between NATO and Russia, with the alliance's involvement in the fighting in Ukraine. In addition, Moscow has been warning for years of the organization's unprecedented increased activity on Western borders and that it will not be ignored.

Under the justification of "containing Russian aggression", the country has repeatedly expressed its concern about the increase in the alliance's forces in Europe.

The Russian Foreign Ministry said that Moscow remains open to dialogue with NATO, but on equal terms, while the West must abandon the militarization of the continent.

President Vladimir Putin, in an interview with US journalist Tucker Carlson, explained in detail that Moscow has no intention of attacking NATO countries. Putin added that Western countries have begun to realize that Russia's strategic defeat in the conflict with Ukraine is impossible, so they should think about their next steps, and Russia is ready for dialogue.
