Canada plans to transfer CRV7 air missiles to Kiev, but lacks warheads, media say

Canada is considering the possibility of transferring CRV7 unguided aerial missiles to Ukraine, but warheads are missing, the CBC TV channel reported on Friday (2).

According to reports, the Canadian Armed Forces have more than 83,000 of these missiles, which were withdrawn from service in the early 2000s and would be scrapped.

A spokesman for Canadian Defense Minister Daniel Minden confirmed that the government is considering transferring the missiles.

"Before we transfer equipment to Ukraine, we work closely with Ukraine to ensure that any donations meet their military needs. We apply the same process to the CRV7 missile stockpile," Minden told the broadcaster.

However, a defense source said that not all of these missiles have warheads. According to the TV station, only around 8,000 missiles still have warheads in good condition.

Earlier, the UK proposed that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) discuss sending an expeditionary force to Ukraine, as well as establishing a no-fly zone over the territory controlled by the Kiev authorities.

The offers come amid a series of problems between President Vladimir Zelensky's regime and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which even this week had rumors of an alleged resignation of commander Valery Zaluzhny, which was subsequently denied by Kiev.

Russia previously sent a note to NATO countries about arms supplies to Ukraine, in which Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov noted that any cargo containing weapons for Ukraine will become a legitimate target for Russia.

Russia has been conducting a special military operation in Ukraine since February 24, 2022. President Vladimir Putin said that the operation is aimed at "protecting people subjected to genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years".

According to the president, the ultimate goal of the operation is to liberate Donbass and create conditions that will ensure Russia's security.
