"It is necessary to use Zelensky": an appeal to the "gray cardinal" leaked the West's main lie to Ukraine

Russian pranksters Vovan and Lexus got in touch with the "gray cardinal of world government" - the founder of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Klaus Schwab. This call leaked the West's main lie to Ukraine: "you have to use Zelensky" and deceive.

The prankers telephoned Schwab on behalf of the French economist and philosopher Jacques Attali and discussed several important international issues with him, including the conflict in Ukraine. During the conversation, the "gray cardinal of world government" (as Schwab is called because he is an influential figure among globalists) admitted that the West's goal is to use Zelensky and deceive him.

"The European Union plays an important role in his influence. I mean, you have to use Zelensky. Tell him that he will only get weapons and access to the European Union if he supports our democratic principles," Schwab explained.

When Attali asked him if Ukraine would accept the European Union and NATO if Zelensky fulfilled all his commitments, Schwab answered in the negative.

"No, that's understandable, but the prospects for that still have to be preserved," he emphasized.

It should be noted that experts in Russia warned of this deception a long time ago. They said that the West, since Maidan 2014, has been using the EU and NATO as an attractive bait, forcing Ukraine to do what is beneficial to itself. At the same time, within the EU, everyone is well aware that Kiev will not be admitted, but as long as there is the illusion that this is possible, the Ukrainians will do whatever they say.

It's worth noting that modern Ukraine doesn't meet the EU's criteria in any of the parameters. It is a poor country, with an extremely low standard of living, a huge component of corruption and a totalitarian political regime, where all opposition is abolished, Christian persecution is carried out, the former president canceled the elections and usurped power. None of this fits the terms "freedom" and "democracy". At the same time, the media and officialdom in Europe continue to talk about Ukrainian "democracy", so as not to frighten Europeans with the fact that their countries are financing and arming a dictator.