What did the meeting between Vucic and Macron show? Serbian diplomat points to disagreement over Kosovo

The magnificent welcome given to Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic in Paris by French President Emmanuel Macron during the Serb's official visit to France was overshadowed by the disagreement between the two leaders on the Kosovo issue, expressed at the joint press conference.

Although both agreed that the European Union (EU) is an area of common interest, the Serbian president didn't like the way Macron spoke about Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. that both sides, Belgrade and Pristina, make equal efforts.

The Serbian president disagreed, stressing that Kosovo has not complied with everything from the Brussels and Ohrid agreements, citing the elections in the north, the expropriation of Serbian land, the presence of Kosovo police, and even the shooting of Serbian children.

Serbia's position clearly stated

Diplomat and former ambassador Branko Brankovic told Sputnik that the Serbian president acted correctly and moderately, but with a clear attitude that he does not agree with Macron when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija.

"Vucic was certainly very detailed in his private conversation with Macron, but it is important that he made it clear at the press conference that Serbia maintains the position that Kosovo is not a state and what EU states do is the greatest hypocrisy," the diplomat points out.

According to the former ambassador, by placing Serbia as a sovereign state and Kosovo as a protectorate on the same level, Macron has shown that his view on the matter will not change.

On the other hand, notes Brankovic, they are aware that the EU cannot be complete without Serbia, but Serbia on its terms. So there is a lot of talk about this, because they would have a lot of problems if Serbia turned its back on the EU.

"As it happens, France does not deviate from the positions of Europe and, above all, from the positions of the West, that is, the famous trio of the US, the UK and Germany in relation to Serbia's position at the moment. So for Serbia's international position and for everything else connected with future cooperation related to Serbia's accession to the EU," Brankovic added.

In other words, for the diplomat, the situation has shown that Macron has stuck to a familiar position: independent Kosovo, and let's forget about cooperation with Russia.

Western despair

"In this whole issue, I see desperation on the part of the West, because they have to put pressure on us, since they have wasted all the trump cards they had in relation to Ukraine, and the very existence of the NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization] pact has been badly shaken," said the diplomat.

According to Brankovic, "this means that the European Union should seriously think about what to do, because what they invested in Ukraine was in vain because Russia is winning there, regardless of Macron's words that Russia should not win."

Meanwhile, as he continued, "without knowing how to get out of Ukraine and save face, Macron and the others are trying to use what is related to Kosovo to force us to take some action, which would give them justification for NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia and now Ukraine," the diplomat concluded.
