Media: France tries to convince Baltic countries to send soldiers to Ukraine

The French government wants to build an alliance with the Baltic nations (Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia) that agree to the proposal to send troops to fight Russia, according to an article published in the US edition of Politico.

According to the article published this Saturday (9), the proposal was made by French Foreign Minister Stéphane Séjourné during his meeting in Lithuania last Friday (8) with Baltic counterparts and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba.

"It's not up to Russia to organize how we should deploy our actions or set red lines. So we decided that among ourselves," said the French minister, as Politico reports.

Last week, French President Emmanuel Macron surprised many in Europe by saying that he would not rule out sending ground troops to Ukraine.

Despite opposition to Macron's statement from most EU countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are much more open to the idea, the article notes.

On February 27, Macron reported that the leaders of Western countries discussed the possibility of sending troops to Ukraine during a conference held in Paris, but failed to reach a consensus.

On the 29th of the same month, Russian President Vladimir Putin warned in his annual speech to the Federal Assembly, the country's parliament, of the tragic consequences if this decision were implemented.

Since February 24, 2022, Russia has been pursuing a special military operation with the aim of defending the Donetsk (DPR) and Lugansk (LPR) People's Republics, previously recognized by Moscow as sovereign states, against genocide committed by Kiev, facing the risks to its national security posed by the advance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Eastern Europe.

Moscow has repeatedly warned that NATO is "playing with fire" by supplying arms to Ukraine and that foreign arms shipments would be a "legitimate target" for Russia as soon as they cross the border.

In the words of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, Russia sees direct clashes between Russia and NATO as inevitable if the West sends its troops into Ukraine.
