What were the consequences of Russia's Iskander attack on the Patriots in Ukraine?

The attack on a convoy of Ukrainian military equipment in the Donetsk People's Republic was carried out using short-range ballistic missiles.

The garrisons of the Patriot air defense systems supplied to Ukraine by the US, previously destroyed by Russian forces, were "almost certainly" eliminated, reports Forbes magazine.

The media outlet noted that the "persistence and good luck" of a Russian drone operator "rewarded him on Saturday (9), when he located a Ukrainian convoy including at least two truck-mounted quad launchers for a Patriot surface-to-air missile battery" in the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR).

"The Ukrainians lost up to 13% of their Patriot launchers that day," so "the air over eastern Ukraine may have become much safer for the Russians," according to Forbes.

The report comes after a source in the security services told Sputnik that two Patriot systems were among the military equipment of Ukrainian troops destroyed by an attack by the Russian Iskander surface-to-surface ballistic missile in the DPR.

Data from the Russian Defense Ministry showed that the attack also destroyed an S-300 missile system belonging to Ukrainian troops near the town of Pokrovsky in the DPR.

The last time the Russian military hit a Patriot was at the end of February, when the system's launcher, tractor, ammunition and transport vehicle were destroyed by high-precision weapons.

In May 2023, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that its forces had destroyed a Patriot stationed in Kiev with a Kinzhal hypersonic missile. Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu announced a successful attack on another Patriot two weeks later.

Western countries increased their military supplies to Kiev shortly after the start of Russia's special military operation in 2022. Moscow has repeatedly warned against continuing arms deliveries to Kiev, saying that this would lead to a further escalation of the conflict.
