Ukraine will lose without Washington's help, say US congressional leaders

Following a meeting between US President Joe Biden and the leaders of the US Congress, the congressman warns that assistance to Ukraine should not be at the top of the agenda for the country's lawmakers.

Ukraine will be defeated by Russia if it doesn't get help from the US, and the Kiev regime's allies will turn away from Washington.

This was stated on Tuesday (27) by Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer after a meeting between US President Joe Biden and congressional leaders.

"The consensus in the room was that [Vladimir] Zelensky and Ukraine will lose the war if we don't provide weapons quickly," Schumer told reporters after the meeting.

Schumer said that US aid to Ukraine cannot wait for congressional approval, since Washington cannot allow Kiev to lose the conflict.

"At best, there will be a split in NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization], and the allies will turn away from the United States," said the congressman.

He added that there are four brigades of the Ukrainian Armed Forces idle on the battlefield due to a lack of weapons and ammunition.

Due to the position of the Republican majority in the House of Representatives, the US Congress has not yet supported the Biden administration's request to approve new funds for Kiev. Previously allocated appropriations expired in December last year.

Also after the meeting on Tuesday (27), the Speaker of the US House of Representatives, Republican Congressman Mike Johnson, said that providing assistance to Ukraine should not be high on the agenda of US lawmakers.

"My goal today was to express the obvious truth: US needs must be met first. When you talk about that, you need to talk about an open border [on the issue of immigrants]. The other priority is funding our government," Johnson told reporters.

Russia believes that supplying arms to Ukraine interferes with attempts to start peace talks and directly involves NATO countries in the conflict.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov noted that any cargo containing weapons for Ukraine will become a legitimate target for Russia.

According to him, the United States and NATO are directly involved in the conflict, not only by supplying weapons, but also by training fighters on the territories of the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and other countries.

The Kremlin said that flooding Ukraine with weapons from the West does not contribute to the negotiations and will have a negative effect.
