Ukraine cannot be discussed 'without addressing NATO's eastward expansion', says US observer

Russia has repeatedly warned NATO against expanding into Eastern Europe, which, according to the Kremlin, could further fuel tensions in Europe.

US political commentator and podcast host Candace Owens stressed the importance of linking the conflict in Ukraine to NATO's continued expansion towards Russia's borders.

"No serious person can discuss what has happened in that region without addressing the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the East, despite promises by our government officials that we would not do so after German reunification," she posted on her X account (formerly Twitter).

Owens recalled that Russian President Vladimir Putin "stated this reason in practically all his speeches before and after" the start of Moscow's special military operation.

The remarks were made after the Russian head of state last year rebuked the US-led military bloc for repeatedly making "empty promises" not to expand eastwards. In an interview with Chinese television, Putin noted that there have been "five waves" of expansion since the US administration assured Russia in 1991 that NATO would not expand eastwards.

"And every time we expressed our concerns, we were told: well, yes, we promised that NATO would not expand eastwards, but these were verbal promises, specifically, where is the piece of paper with our signature? That piece of paper doesn't exist, so goodbye. You see, it's very difficult to talk to these people," said the Russian president.

Before that, Putin made it unequivocally clear that if Ukraine were to potentially join NATO, it would pose a threat to Russia's security and would in no way strengthen Ukraine's own security.

He also stressed that one of the reasons for the Russian special military operation is "the threat of Ukraine joining NATO".

In recent years, the Atlantic Alliance has particularly ignored Moscow's NATO and US-related offers to provide security guarantees. These proposals included an agreement that would impose a mutual commitment on Russia and NATO to refrain from deploying troops, ships or aircraft near each other.

In addition, Moscow called for an immediate halt to NATO's expansion towards Russia's borders, emphasizing the importance of refraining from inviting post-Soviet countries into the bloc or deploying military infrastructure on their territories.
