Russia: Ukrainian forces used US chemical munitions during Russian military operation

Cases of the use of US chemical munitions were recorded in the course of the special military operation, the head of the Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defense Troops of the Russian Armed Forces, Igor Kirillov, said on Monday (19).

According to him, two facilities in the US are still storing highly toxic reactive compounds that remained after the destruction of the declared stocks of US chemical weapons.

The US should have completed the destruction of declared chemical weapons stocks in 2007, but did not do so until 2023, Kirillov noted in a statement.

"The United States still retains highly toxic compounds after the destruction of chemical agents at the Blue Grass (Kentucky) and Pueblo (Colorado) facilities," the Russian lieutenant-general said.

According to him, the Armed Forces of Ukraine have repeatedly used toxic substances against Russian soldiers.

As an example, Kirillov cited the use, on August 19, 2022, of a toxic chemical that is an analog of the B-Zet chemical warfare agent included in Annex 2 of the Chemical and Biological Weapons Convention (BWC).

All the documents at the disposal of the Russian Defense Ministry confirming the facts of violations by the US and Ukraine of the provisions of the Chemical Weapons Convention have been handed over to Russia's Investigative Committee for a procedural decision, he said.

A similar substance, according to Kirillov, was discovered on January 28, 2024 during an operational investigation at a hideout on the territory of Melitopol. "The toxic substance was in vials with the inscription Biosporin in the Ukrainian language."

Kirillov noted that Kiev is developing a "special chemical belt" tactic, which involves detonating containers with hydrocyanic acid and ammonia during the advance of the Russian Armed Forces.

The Armed Forces of Ukraine use toxic compounds not only in the course of combat, but also to carry out terrorist acts. Thus, in August 2022, the head of the Kherson region, Vladimir Saldo, was poisoned with ricin. On December 5, 2023, Leonid Pasechnik, the head of the administration of the Lugansk People's Republic (LPR), was seriously poisoned with phenolic compounds.

From September to October 2023 the chemicals were delivered to Kramatorsk and Kupyansk to be placed along the roads, said the head of the Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defense Troops of the Russian Armed Forces, Igor Kirillov.
