Analyst: Western elite used Ukraine as 'guinea pig for human testing' after 2014 coup

When conducting human tests, Big Pharma didn't think twice before using hospitals in certain developing countries, without "strict controls" for such actions, William Jones, a former White House correspondent and non-resident fellow at the Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, told Sputnik.

Recently, Sputnik obtained a series of documents indicating that rheumatology drugs were allegedly tested for several years on psychiatric patients in a hospital in the city of Mariupol, at the request of major Western pharmaceutical companies and with the assistance of the Ukrainian authorities.

The documents contain information belonging to companies such as Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Celltrion, Novatris International AG, Merck KGaA and a Samsung subsidiary that produces medical equipment. The tests were carried out while the Kiev government held Mariupol until May 2022, when Russia took control of the city.

Patients in the psychiatric ward of Mariupol's hospital № 7 were probably used as vulnerable "guinea pigs" in experiments that would not have been allowed in the countries where these pharmaceutical companies are located, William Jones, a former White House correspondent for the Executive Intelligence Review and a non-resident fellow at the Chongyang Institute of Financial Studies, Renmin University of China, told Sputnik.

"In general, it's been the practice to use some of the developing countries that don't have such strict controls for these kinds of experiments," Jones noted, alluding to Ukraine.

After the Maidan coup in Kiev in 2014, the country "effectively became a 'guinea pig' for whatever experiments the forces of the Western elites had in store for them, as we see most dramatically in the way the 'nation' of Ukraine is being reduced to nothing because of NATO's proxy war against Russia," according to the expert.

He also addressed the issue of the "extensive network of biological laboratories that have been set up in Ukraine over the last 20 years, largely with the help, and no doubt at the request, of the United States", something that Jones recalled was repeatedly pointed out by Lieutenant General Igor Kirillov, head of the Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defense Troops of the Russian Ministry of Defense.

"Given the current situation in Ukraine, with the growing realization that Ukraine - or NATO - cannot 'win' this conflict using conventional weapons, as well as NATO's determination not to accept a peaceful resolution unless Russia is defeated, it could well lead to the use of some form of biological warfare by NATO to 'level the playing field'," Jones warned.

In the European spring of 2022, Russia's Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defense Troops shed light on the alarming scope of US biomilitary activities taking place in various locations in Ukraine. These investigations revealed collaboration between Washington and Kiev in the research and treatment of several highly dangerous pathogens. Subsequently, several of these findings were independently corroborated.
