Moscow responds to Zelensky's statements on negotiations with Russia

For Russian Presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov, Ukraine must take into account the drastic changes in the country's borders since the start of the special military operation in the peace negotiations. Increasingly abandoned by the West, the country has accumulated significant losses in recent months.

Earlier this week, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky declared in an interview with CBS News that a return to the 1991 borders was no longer a precondition for negotiations with Russia. However, the Ukrainian still insisted that Kiev must regain the territory lost to Moscow by 2022.

That year, four former Ukrainian regions - Donetsk, Lugansk, Kherson and Zaporozhie - voted by a large majority to join Russia in a public referendum. The population followed the Crimean peninsula, which did the same in 2014.

After the 2022 referendums, Zelensky banned all talks with the current Russian leadership, focusing on a formula for ending the conflict that requires a complete withdrawal of Moscow's forces from all the aforementioned territories.

Although Russia claims to be open to talks with Kiev, the country has rejected Zelensky's idea as "detached from reality".

Regarding Zelensky's statements, Peskov told Sputnik on Saturday (30) that "the geopolitical reality has changed dramatically since the start of the special military operation. The borders of both Ukraine and the Russian Federation have changed."

The spokesman also commented that Russia has already incorporated the four former Ukrainian regions, stressing that this reality "cannot be ignored".

Meanwhile, the official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, said that Zelensky's change of position was due to the fact that he was "nervous".

"He has an election coming up. Or is there no election?" she questioned. The Ukrainian president has previously indicated that he has no plans to authorize a vote, citing martial law, which has drawn criticism both at home and abroad.

Zelensky's statements followed a statement by Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba, who said that Kiev may engage with Moscow at some point after a summit in Switzerland later this year, which is widely expected to revolve around Zelensky's peace formula. Russia has said that it does not plan to attend the event, even if it is officially invited.
