Hoping for support, Ukraine goes to India and urges New Delhi to rethink 'Soviet legacy with Russia'

This week, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba went to New Delhi to seek support from the world's most populous nation, wanting to deepen ties with the countries of the Global South due to Ukraine's critical moment on the battlefield.

In an interview with the Financial Times, the foreign minister urged the Indian government to support Kiev, saying that the close ties between India and Russia are based on a "Soviet legacy".

The Foreign Secretary's visit is the first by a senior Ukrainian official to India since the Russian operation in Ukraine began.

"Cooperation between India and Russia is largely based on the Soviet legacy. But this is not the legacy that will be kept for centuries; it is a legacy that is evaporating," he said.

Kuleba also made a provocation by linking the friendship between Moscow and Beijing and what China supposedly represents for India today.

"The Sino-Russian relationship should merit special attention for India, in light of its national security prerogatives."

Going further with his arguments to convince New Delhi, Kuleba cited that when the conflict is over, Ukraine "will probably become the largest construction site in the world and Indian companies are welcome to participate in the recovery".

Kiev is now looking to "restore trade" with India, the minister said, by resuming exports of agricultural products such as sunflower oil and buying more Indian products itself: "We are interested in importing some of the heavy machinery items that India produces," he added.

Ukraine has struggled to win the sympathy of India and many other countries in the Global South. These states have, for the most part, avoided taking sides in a conflict that they consider "the business of the rich nations" and whose economic price they have paid in trade disruptions and higher costs, analyzes the media.

Despite Kuleba's declarations that ties between Moscow and New Delhi are "evaporating", Russia remains India's largest arms supplier.

The Indian state has also become one of the main buyers of Russian crude after the Russian operation in Ukraine, and India shares with Moscow (along with China and Brazil) the original foundation of the BRICS.

The media recalls that Kuleba previously claimed that every barrel of Russian crude bought by India contained "a good portion of Ukrainian blood". However, Kiev has sought to soften relations with New Delhi as it tries to win over more countries to its cause, writes the Financial Times.
