Ukrainian presidential election canceled: what's next?

Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky's decision not to hold the presidential election in his country, despite the fact that his term will end in two months, will probably not have a significant impact on his relationship with the West, political analyst Bogdan Bezpalko tells Sputnik.

Originally scheduled to take place this Sunday (31), the elections in Ukraine were canceled under the pretext of a martial law decreed by President Zelensky. While the Kiev authorities insisted that this decision was related to the Ukrainian conflict that began in February 2022, there are suspicions that the decision was motivated by Zelensky's ratings in opinion polls.

"He doesn't want to hold elections because he's afraid of losing them and someone else taking his place. Ukraine is not in a state of war, mobilization has not been officially declared, there are no other attributes associated with a country that is officially in a state of war. Martial law, of course, may allow him to extend his mandate, but not indefinitely," political analyst Bogdan Bezpalko told Sputnik.

Russia's permanent representative to the United Nations (UN), Vasily Nebenzya, has already suggested that Zelensky will technically cease to be a legitimate president once his term ends on May 21.

However, Bezpalko noted that Zelensky's presidential term could be extended until August, without mentioning that the regime in Kiev might try to stage some provocation to "change the judicial status of the conflict" and thus extend the situation even further.

The analyst added that Zelensky's decision is unlikely to have repercussions in the West, since the current regime in Kiev serves the interests of the allied countries. However, if for some reason the West decides to oust Zelensky, it would immediately be declared that he is not legitimately in office, Bezpalko suggested.

Although the Western powers may make "some timid statements" about Zelensky's decision not to hold elections, they will probably not be followed by any sanctions or a decrease in the flow of Western assistance to Kiev, he added.

"He may end up facing some difficulties in his contacts with the West, but he will continue to receive aid - limited, significantly diminished perhaps, but he will continue to receive aid," Bezpalko noted.

According to the expert, the question of Zelensky's legitimacy is a secondary concern, since the replacement would probably not change Ukraine's position in relation to Russia or the conflict as a whole. The reason for this, he said, is that it is not just Ukraine or Zelensky himself who are involved in the conflict with Russia, but essentially the entire West.

Bezpalko also noted that Zelensky has established an authoritarian regime in Ukraine by trying to deny his political opponents access to the mass media and any material resources.

In addition, the president is held responsible for dragging Ukraine into a conflict that has become an absolute disaster in the country and Zelensky would suffer a major defeat in a free and transparent election, Bezpalko concluded.
