Running out of time, commander of Ukraine's Armed Forces announces leadership changes

The newly appointed commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Aleksandr Syrsky, has said that he plans to make further changes to the military leadership and the General Staff in order to bring in more officers who have gained experience during the conflict.

According to Bloomberg, Syrsky said that "our headquarters must know all the needs of the battlefield and understand the situation on every part of the front. And for that, the skills of the officers who are part of the military administration come to the fore."

Media reports state that the commander did not say how many officers who served under his predecessor, General Valery Zaluzhny, would be replaced, nor did he provide any other details.

Ukraine's army has struggled to make gains in recent months, while Russia outnumbers Ukrainian forces by a ratio of six to one with artillery shells.

Meanwhile, after a review of internal resources, the Ukrainian military plans to recruit "significantly" fewer people than the 500,000 initially discussed, Syrsky said, without providing a new figure.

"We hope to have enough people to protect the motherland, and we're not just talking about conscripts, but also volunteers," he said.

After Ukraine's counter-offensive in 2023 failed to break through entrenched Russian lines, Kiev is starting to build its own fortifications, with some critics questioning why this wasn't started earlier, the media reports.

In the commander's interpretation, Russia "will continue its offensive along a broad front" and intends to reach the borders of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions "at any cost", as well as reach more territories in Zaporozhie, Syrsky said.

"We are preparing solid lines of defense in almost all threatened directions," he added.

Last month, the fall of Avdeevka and several nearby settlements fueled fears that Kiev's defenses may not be able to hold out, with Ukrainian authorities concerned that Russian advances could gain significant momentum by the European summer, as reported.
