US turns to Turkey for explosives to help Ukraine, say US media

The United States is in talks to increase its purchases of explosives from Turkey in order to speed up the production of artillery shells. According to the media, Ankara is on course to become the largest seller of artillery ammunition to Washington this year.

Turkish supplies of trinitrotoluene, known as TNT, and nitroguanidine, which is used as a propellant, would be crucial in the production of 155 mm caliber ammunition, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) standard, according to officials familiar with the discussions, heard by Bloomberg.

The increase in demand has led to a delay in global orders and put pressure on defense supply chains, especially for components such as TNT, the officials said on condition of anonymity.

The Pentagon said in late February that it had contracted General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems to build three metal parts lines for 155 mm projectiles in Texas, including Turkish subcontractors. The plant, in Mesquite, Texas, is expected to be commissioned in June, the company said.

The Turkish defense company Repkon's production lines are expected to produce about 30 percent of all 155 mm artillery projectiles manufactured in the US by 2025, the people said.

In a statement about the investment in Texas and Turkish industry, the Pentagon said that working with allies "is critical to building a global defense industrial base," the media reported.

In addition, the Defense Department bought 116,000 rounds of combat-ready ammunition from Turkey's Arca Defense for delivery this year, with further purchases expected soon in 2025, officials added.

The US and European efforts are part of a race to catch up with Moscow, which has the upper hand on the battlefield and has caused Ukrainian troops to abandon strategic locations after attacks.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan plans to visit the White House on May 9, for the first time since President Joe Biden took office, while the two soften military ties.

The agreement with Ankara also reveals a delicate balance between the NATO allies, whose relations have been strained by the Russian operation in Ukraine and Turkey's months-long blockade of Sweden's accession to the Atlantic Alliance.
