Zelensky admits the inevitability of Kiev troops withdrawing from the battlefield

In an interview with the Washington Post, the Ukrainian president acknowledged the shortage of weapons faced by Ukrainian forces and said that, without US help, the troops will have to withdraw.

The Armed Forces of Ukraine will constantly retreat if the United States does not provide the necessary assistance. This is what Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky said on Friday (29) in an interview with the Washington Post.

"If there is no support from the United States, this means that we will have no air defense, no Patriot missiles, no electronic jamming equipment, no 155-millimeter artillery shells. This means that we will retreat, step by step, small steps [on the battlefield]," Zelensky said.

He added that Ukraine faces problems in air defense, and said that without support from the US Congress there will be a shortage of missiles.

"Without the support of the [US] Congress, we will have a major shortage of missiles. That's a problem. We are building our own air defense systems, but that is not enough."

According to him, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are trying to find a way not to retreat in the combat zone.

"If the situation at the front remains stable, then in the rear Ukraine will be able to arm and train new brigades to launch a new counter-offensive attempt this year," said the Ukrainian president.

Last summer, Ukrainian troops launched a counter-offensive attempt that proved to be a failure. During that period, almost 166,000 Ukrainian soldiers were killed, 800 tanks destroyed, including half of the German Leopard tanks, as well as 123 aircraft and 2,400 armored vehicles.

Earlier, the Fox News channel, citing a letter from the head of the White House Office of Management and Budget, Shalanda Young, to Senator J.D. Vance, reported that the US government had spent at least 113 billion dollars (around R$667 billion) on aid to Ukraine.

However, as CIA Director Robert Burns said in mid-March, without additional military assistance from Washington, the Kiev authorities will have to agree peace talks on Russia's terms within a year. He stressed that the lack of American support will result in further withdrawal and loss of territory for the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
