Watch out for El Niño and ocean anomalies. It's late but summer is here: August is going to be hot

August is starting to approach, but summer seems to be a long way off. Pedro Sousa, a meteorologist at the Portuguese Institute for the Sea and Atmosphere (IPMA) confirms that this week "we are witnessing an episode of hot weather" and last week "there were also a few". The heat being felt at the end of July is "relatively normal" and the meteorologist classifies these periods as typical "summer heat".

"With no records and no prolonged hot spells, it's been a quiet summer," admits the meteorologist. And this is indeed the case, not least because there have been many complaints that the heat has arrived late.

For August, temperatures are expected to be above average inland and below average on the coast, says Pedro Sousa. The weeks are therefore expected to be dry and hot, with cooler trends on the coast.

"August is very likely to be hot," he explains, due to the global warming trend over the years and the El Niño phenomenon which, "whenever it happens, the planet experiences high temperatures". In addition, there are above-normal ocean anomalies which make the sea warmer, which also reduces the influence of the sea breeze on the temperature.

Despite this, the IPMA meteorologist warns that this is not an absolute certainty, since "forecasts lose reliability" and a "forecast for three weeks from now can always change". "Forecasts change quickly," he concludes.

Comparing the temperature of August 2024 with the last three decades, he stresses that next month's weather should be higher, but "there's no guarantee that it will be hotter than last year or 2018", which were marked by temperature phenomena.

"The predicted and observed temperatures are higher than in the last thirty years, but that doesn't mean they will be very high," he explains.

The end of July and the first week of August are expected to be hot and dry, with above-average temperatures inland and negative anomalies on the coast. "Normal for summer," says the expert.

As for this week, everything indicates that it will be "quite hot". Next week should continue with above-average temperatures.