Climate activists sentenced to between four and five years in prison in England

Five protesters linked to the climate group Just Stop Oil have been found guilty of conspiracy to cause public disorder, reports The Guardian. The activists were given record sentences for non-violent protests because of their role in the movement that blocked London's M25 freeway for four consecutive days in November 2022.

Roger Hallam, 58 and co-founder of the climate group, was sentenced to five years in prison. The other four involved were sentenced to four years.

The five defendants allegedly met at Zoom on November 2, 2022, at a meeting where they discussed the planning of the protest. At the same meeting, they allegedly tried to recruit people to block the highway. A journalist from The Sun joined the call and sent the recordings to the police.

During the trial that culminated in the record sentences, 11 protesters were arrested for rioting outside the court. Christopher Hehir, the judge, considered that "the disturbance was intricately planned" and there was "irrefutable evidence" of a conspiracy, as quoted by Sky News.

In addition, Hehir added that the protesters had "appointed themselves as the sole judges of what should be done about climate change" and that they had gone "from concerned to fanatical" some time ago.

Climáximo, a group of Portuguese climate activists, showed solidarity with Just Stop Oil. In a statement, the group declared that the convicted protesters are "political prisoners of a war that fossil companies have declared on society" and compared this situation to the suspended sentence of one and a half years for the group's eight protesters, tried for blocking Avenida Duarte Pacheco in Lisbon on December 14, 2023.

Amnesty International also spoke out against the sentence. "These long sentences for people simply seeking climate justice should raise alarm about the recurrent repression of peaceful protests in this country. This violates all our human rights," said Tom Southerden, Amnesty UK's legal and human rights adviser, quoted by The Independent.

Prosecutors claimed that the protests, during which 45 people climbed onto the freeway gantries, had an economic cost of at least 765 thousand pounds, around 907 thousand euros. In addition, the demonstration cost the Metropolitan Police the equivalent of 1.3 million euros.

The protests also caused around 50,000 hours of delays and affected 700,000 vehicles, leaving the M25 compromised for more than 120 hours.

A police officer was also left bruised after being knocked down by a motorcycle in the traffic caused by the protest.