Red alert due to intense heatwave in eastern and southern Europe

Like Romania, the whole of eastern Europe is in the grip of an intense heatwave, the third of the season.

"It's exactly what the scientists predicted. This is part of human-caused climate change, and it's only going to get worse in the future if we don't act," Professor Ilan Kelman of University College London told AFP.

Hungary's Debrecen airport, the country's second largest, had to be closed temporarily because the heat had damaged the runways.

In neighboring Romania, power cuts are multiplying in hospitals due to peaks in air conditioning consumption.

A 45-year-old man died as a result of the heat in the northern city of Botosani and in several parts of the country temperatures broke records during the night, with thermometers above 27ºC.

"It's very worrying that the temperatures won't drop. If organizations don't have time to cool down during the night, the death toll could rise," warned Kelman.

The fires have devastated thousands of hectares in North Macedonia, Albania and Bulgaria.

According to Hannah Cloke, a climatologist at the University of Reading, "European city dwellers will have to adapt not only their infrastructure but also their habits to cope with more intense heatwaves in the future," adding that "it may be almost impossible to leave the house on certain days."

Outdoor work banned in several places

Heatwaves are increasingly likely and severe as a result of climate change, according to experts.

In Europe, temperatures are getting higher and higher, rising twice as fast as the global average.

Some regions of Greece have already recorded temperatures of over 40ºC for more than 10 days.

The heat is so intense that the Acropolis of Athens, the country's most visited site, had to close its doors for several days during the hottest hours of the day.

The economy has also had to adapt to the high temperatures.

In Sicily, since Wednesday, it has been forbidden to work in agriculture and construction between 12.30pm and 4pm on days when the risk of working outdoors is "high". The measure remains in force until August 31st.

A total of 14 Italian cities, including Rome and Florence, are on "red alert" due to the heat and humidity.

Due to the temperatures, several regions of Italy have suffered an invasion of locusts, according to the Coldiretti agricultural union.
