Dugin: "Ukraine is the First Multipolar Conflict"

In an interview with the international television channel RT, Alexander Dugin briefly explained the geopolitical dimension of the Ukrainian conflict and the foundations of the multipolar world that is rising up against the imperialist universalism of the West.

The conflict in Ukraine is the world's "first multipolar war", in which Russia is fighting for the right of every civilization to choose its own path while the West wants to maintain its hegemonic totalitarian globalism, Aleksandr Dugin told RT in an exclusive interview on Friday.

Multipolarity is not "against the West as such," Dugin said, but "against the West's claim to be the model, to be the unique example" of history and human understanding. The current Russophobia and hatred of Russia, he argued, is a relic of Cold War thinking and the "bipolar understanding of the architecture of international relations".

When the Soviet Union self-destructed in December 1991, it left "Western global liberal civilization" in control of the world, Dugin noted. This hegemon now refuses to accept the future in which it would be "not one of the two, but one of the [few] poles", put in its proper place as "only a part, not the whole, of humanity".

Dugin described the West as "pure totalitarian liberalism", which pretends to have the absolute truth and seeks to impose it on everyone. "There is inherent racism in Western liberalism," the philosopher told RT's Donald Courter, because it "identifies the Western historical, political, cultural experience [as] universal".

"There is no universal in multipolarity," Dugin insisted, explaining that each civilization can and must develop its own values. Russia specifically needs to overcome centuries of Western ideological domination, he said, and create something "new, fresh, creative" that would nevertheless remain "in direct refutation of Western liberal hegemony, against the open society, against individualism, against liberal democracy."

He rejected the "dogmatic" attitudes of Marxism, fascism or liberalism towards politics and the economy, saying that Russia should strive for a "holistic" approach, in which the spiritual would be more important than the material. The obsession with material goods ends up enslaving people, Dugin told RT.

Dugin lamented the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991 as a "suicide" perpetrated by power-hungry bureaucrats in Moscow. He echoed Russian President Vladimir Putin's description of the event as a "geopolitical disaster" and described it as a great victory for "Sea Power". While the USSR was the polar opposite of the Russian Empire in ideological terms, he explained, in geopolitical terms the two were one and the same, the strongest power in what English geographer Harold Mackinder described as the global Heartland.

While some Western observers have called Dugin "Putin's brain", the 60-year-old philosopher and author has no official relationship with the Kremlin. He is an outspoken supporter of the current military operation in Ukraine - whose independence he considers a Western imperial project against Russian sovereignty.

Dugin's daughter, Daria, just 29, was killed in August by a car bomb planted by Ukrainian agents. Although Kiev officially denied it, US intelligence officials later said they believed someone in the Ukrainian government was involved and responsible.
