Climate change: the unwelcome topic between Trump and the Republicans

Climate change seems to be of little concern to the participants at the Republican convention in Milwaukee, held to endorse Donald Trump as the candidate for the US elections in November.

"I don't believe any of it," says Jack Prendergast, a New York delegate to the meeting, convinced that "volcanic eruptions" cause as much damage to the planet as "man's actions". He is impatiently awaiting Donald Trump's return to the White House so that the United States can "become the world's number one oil and gas producer".

Skepticism

The former president, who is running to remove Joe Biden from the White House, has a motto of "drill, baby, drill", which sums up his support for the exploration and use of fossil fuels.

Trump, who regularly makes skeptical comments about the climate, denounced the Paris Agreement during his first administration.

This week, the Republicans approved his candidacy for a second term. To be his running mate, Trump chose Senator J.D. Vance, also a climate skeptic.

The Ohio senator, who will become vice-president if Trump is elected, has in the past accused the Democrats of stirring up fears about the "environmental crisis" for electoral purposes.

The program that the two will defend in the elections was adopted on Monday by Republican delegates in Milwaukee. The 5,000-word document makes not the slightest mention of the climate or renewable energies, despite the fact that the country is suffering from a heat wave.

On the contrary, the text calls for an end to "green" measures, described as "socialist". Trump himself is opposed to wind energy, convinced that turbines "kill birds".

Long-term work

Environmentalists such as the Sunrise Movement have criticized the Republican platform, saying that the party "has made it clear that it is happy to make the climate crisis worse".

"We have to look at their words with a little perspective," smiles Stephen Perkins of the American Conservation Coalition, perhaps the only booth at the Milwaukee convention to discuss preserving the planet.

"I think some of their comments are more intended to entertain than to express political positions," the 29-year-old told AFP.

His organization is present at this large Milwaukee sports center to defend a "conservative approach to climate policy" that could allow Republicans to "win over" the youth vote, he believes. "It's a long-term task," Perkins admits, referring to a 'natural aversion' to the issue, especially among older Republicans.

Radical sect

According to a Yale poll released on Tuesday 16, more than two-thirds of Americans believe in the existence of climate change.

However, this does not necessarily translate into support for Democratic President Joe Biden, who has promoted several initiatives to combat global warming during his term in office.

Perkins, on the other hand, believes that Biden is at the mercy of a "radical sect" of progressives "who don't pay attention to nuance". His booth at the convention displays the word "destruction" next to images of left-wing environmental activists throwing soup at a work of art.