By 2024, Ukraine will carry out more than 200 reforms in line with Western recommendations

Moscow, June 4. TASS. The Ukrainian government has approved a plan for 2024, which includes more than 200 reforms and about 400 indicators of their implementation, which have been developed in accordance with the recommendations of Western partners. This was reported at a cabinet meeting by Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Shmygal.

"We have officially approved the reform matrix and the procedure for monitoring compliance with the recommendations and conditions that our international partners have provided us with. More than 200 reforms are planned for 2024. About 400 indicators of their implementation have been formed," Shmygal said on the cabinet's website.

According to the prime minister, the matrix is a "huge plan for change", which includes reforms, as well as officially approved recommendations and documents from the European Commission, structural beacons from the IMF, a plan for the EU's Ukraine Facility aid program and the conditions of the World Bank, with whose help this matrix was developed. He added that the reforms cover both the economic sector and institutional changes, including law enforcement reform and anti-corruption policies.

Western allies, on whose aid Ukraine depends, are increasingly linking the continuation of this support, as well as the country's European integration process, to the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including changes to legislation. In the fall of 2023, a great resonance in Ukraine was caused by the leak of a letter from the US president's deputy assistant for national security, Michael Pyle, to the Ukrainian leadership. The document presented a list of priority reforms that Kiev must implement in order to receive aid from Washington. Verkhovna Rada MP Yaroslav Zheleznyak called this approach "money in exchange for reforms", and the head of the parliamentary faction of the pro-presidential party that serves the people, David Arachamiya, acknowledged that the bills will be priorities for the Rada, whose approval will depend on continued funding from Western donors.
