Over 1600 Scientists Deny Climate Emergency

Already 1609 scientists, including several Nobel laureates, have signed a declaration entitled "There is No Climate Emergency". This text was promoted by the Climate Intelligence Foundation (CLINTEL). "Climate science should be less political, while climate policy should be more scientific," the text states.

"There is no climate emergency. Therefore, there is no reason for panic and alarm. We strongly oppose the damaging and unrealistic Net Zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050. Bet on adaptation instead of mitigation; adaptation works regardless of the causes," said the group of scientists.

They argue that this gas is "essential" for our planet. They also argue that "the Earth's climate has varied for as long as the planet has existed, and the planet has gone through several cold and hot phases".

Two "Nobel Prize winners"

American physicists Ivar Giaever and John F. Clauser, Nobel Prize winners in 1973 and 2022 respectively, joined the declaration against the climate change crisis.

They said that "the popular narrative on climate change reflects a dangerous corruption of science that threatens the global economy and the well-being of billions of people".

A Spaniard among the signatories

Majorcan Luis Pomar, geologist and professor emeritus at the University of the Balearic Islands, is on the list of scientists who reject climate change. The Spaniard was the first to win the Sorby Medal from the International Sedimentology Association.

Points of the declaration

The text entitled "There is no climate emergency" includes the following points:

- The geological record reveals that the Earth's climate has varied for as long as the planet has existed, with natural cold and warm phases. The Little Ice Age ended in 1850. It is therefore not surprising that we are now experiencing a warming period.

- The world has warmed significantly less than predicted by the IPCC based on the modeled anthropogenic effect. The gap between the real world and the modeled world tells us that we are far from understanding climate change.

- Climate models have many flaws and are not at all plausible as global policy tools. They exaggerate the effect of greenhouse gases such as CO2. Furthermore, they ignore the fact that enriching the atmosphere with CO2 is beneficial.

- CO2 is not a pollutant. It is essential for life on Earth. Photosynthesis is a blessing. More CO2 is beneficial for nature, it makes the Earth greener: the extra CO2 in the air has promoted the growth of the world's plant biomass. It's also good for agriculture, as it increases the productivity of crops around the world.

- There is no statistical evidence that global warming is intensifying hurricanes, floods, droughts and similar natural disasters, or making them more frequent. However, there is ample evidence that CO2 mitigation measures are harmful and costly.

There is no climate emergency. Therefore, there is no cause for panic and alarm. We strongly oppose the damaging and unrealistic Net Zero CO2 emissions policy proposed for 2050. If better approaches emerge, and they undoubtedly will, we will have plenty of time to reflect and readapt. The goal of global policy must be "prosperity for all" through the provision of reliable and affordable energy at all times. In a prosperous society, men and women are well educated, birth rates are low and people care about the environment.
