Climate crisis could impact insect sex life, says study

In the cold, an insect with a darker body is better at capturing a sexual partner than a "rival" with a shiny structure. Darker males can warm up more easily in the early morning and therefore get more time for mating while the others are still warming up.

This is one of many examples of how temperature affects the coloration of insects and, in turn, can affect their ability to mate, according to a new review article published in the journal Ecology and Evolution and reported by the Guardian.

Scientists are still trying to figure out what will happen to the sex lives of insects now that man-made climate collapse is raising temperatures to unprecedented levels.

"On the one hand, we could be cheerful, saying: how are the insects? They're responding to climate change. We don't need to worry about them," said Mariella Herberstein, a behavioral ecologist at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia, who is one of the authors of the study.

The prevailing theory among scientists, says Herberstein, is that when temperatures rise, insects largely evolve to produce less pigment that regulates their hue, becoming lighter and brighter. This is because darker objects absorb more heat and warm up more quickly, while lighter objects reflect more radiation and can remain cooler for longer.

For example, the colors of the wings of some North American mountain butterflies have faded over time as temperatures have risen - the shimmering sulfur-yellow wings have become paler, according to a 2016 study.

Between the 1980s and 2000s, it became less and less likely that the two-spotted ladybug would be black with red spots rather than red with black spots.

But Herberstein's team discovered that the pattern isn't always so simple. A follow-up study on Meadii butterflies, which looked at more than 800 animals collected for museum samples between 1953 and 2013, found that in some areas their yellow wings became richer and darker in color over time.

"The mechanism is not so clear - it's confusing," said another of the study's authors, Tonmoy Haque, a PhD student at Macquarie University. This may be because the researchers are working with a limited set of data that comes from similar studies with similar insects, he says. It's probably also because melanin doesn't just have a heat-related function, but is involved in immune defenses and helps protect against ultraviolet radiation from the sun.