The new fires of the Inquisition

1. The rector of the University of Coimbra thinks he can fire the director of the University's Center for Russian Studies with the same arbitrariness with which any boss of a ladder company fires a young person on probation. There is no disciplinary procedure, there are no facts to justify it. There is the fact that the dismissed director is Russian and there is the accusation made by two Ukrainians that the director recommends books by Russian authors and has an opinion on the war in Ukraine that does not coincide with that of the accusers.

In all the news that has come out about this dismissal, which has been done outside any legal process, which is serious in a public institution, there are no facts to justify it other than the nationality of the author and the accusation about his opinions.

It is clear that we are dealing with a gross violation of Article 13 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, according to which no one may be harmed or deprived of any right because of their language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological convictions.

That the Ukrainian whistleblowers ignore the Portuguese Constitution and the democratic rights it enshrines doesn't surprise me, but that the rector of a university should promote the summary dismissal of a professor on the grounds of his nationality and for a crime of opinion is something that amazes me, outrages me, and which I consider to be a disgrace to a university whose prestige should be defended. Were we not living in the climate of witch-hunting that has been imposed on this western corner of the world, the news of a rector who, in an act of total arrogance, summarily dismisses a professor, violating his fundamental rights with the same degree of carelessness with which he bans beef in the canteens, would be cause for national and international scandal.

2. Manuel Pires da Rocha is a prestigious Portuguese musician and music teacher. He is publicly known for being the violinist of the Victor Jara Brigade, but he has a very prestigious past and present in music teaching, namely as a teacher and director of the Coimbra Conservatory. He studied in Moscow, where he obtained a degree in violin and, unlike others, he respects the country where he studied and the people who welcomed him. Last week, Manuel Pires da Rocha was targeted by a snitch who identified himself as a "Jew of Ukrainian origins", who sent an email to the Conservatory's teachers denouncing his presence at the commemorations of Victory Day over Nazi-fascism in Lisbon. The response to this ignominy was given by Manuel Rocha himself with the intellectual brilliance for which he is renowned and whose reading I highly recommend.

3. These two episodes add up to the one at Setúbal Town Hall, where Russian citizens were vilified and even accused of being spies for the simple fact that they were Russian and that they were offering to support Ukrainian refugees in Portugal, they add up to demonstrations by Ukrainian citizens in Portugal displaying flags of Nazi organizations and defending the outlawing of the PCP, they add up to a drift of political and cultural intolerance that is very dangerous for democracy. As Manuel Rocha wrote in his text, quoting the vampires sung by José Afonso who are once again roaming around, if someone is fooled by their stern look and opens the door to them on arrival, they eat everything and leave nothing behind.