Russia denies openness to negotiating Kiev's NATO membership in exchange for territories

Citing sources close to the Kremlin, the Bloomberg news agency reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin was trying to find out whether Washington was in favor of starting talks on ending the war in Ukraine.

Russia denied on Friday that President Vladimir Putin had expressed any willingness to the United States to negotiate Ukraine's entry into NATO in exchange for Russian control over the territories annexed in the neighboring country.

"This information is wrong and does not coincide at all with reality," said Russian presidential spokesman Dmitri Peskov at the usual daily press conference.

Earlier, citing sources close to the Kremlin, the Bloomberg news agency reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin was trying to find out whether Washington was in favor of starting talks on ending the war in Ukraine.

According to two sources quoted by Bloomberg, the Russian leader has sent signals to the United States of America (USA) about Moscow's possible willingness to talk.

According to the information provided by the news agency, the Kremlin leader may be willing to consider Ukraine's possible membership of the Atlantic Alliance, provided that Kiev accepts the new "territorial realities", referring to the Ukrainian regions annexed by Moscow.

Until now, Ukraine has always opposed making territorial concessions to Moscow or freezing the conflict because, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, this would only benefit Moscow.

Russia wants international assessment of military plane crash

The Kremlin also reproached Western countries for failing to condemn the downing of the Russian Il-76 military transport plane carrying Ukrainian prisoners, which according to Moscow was Ukraine's responsibility, during Thursday's meeting of the United Nations Security Council.

"So far there has been no categorical condemnation from Western countries of this horrific terrorist attack. We haven't heard a single word of condemnation," Peskov said.

According to the Kremlin spokesman, "this event requires a proper assessment by the international community", since, he claimed, "this is not the first time that Kiev has killed its own people".

Asked about the Russian Presidency's willingness to present evidence to the UN or other international organizations that Ukraine was involved in the downing of the plane or that the Ukrainian authorities knew who was on board, Peskov replied only that he had "nothing to add" at the moment.

"The investigators are working and decisions will be made as they obtain all the necessary information," he added.

According to the Russian version, the Il-76 military transport plane was shot down on Wednesday by Ukraine with 65 Ukrainian prisoners of war on board, as well as six crew members and three Russian guards, who were supposedly traveling to Ukraine to carry out a prisoner exchange.

For its part, Ukraine, which confirmed that an exchange was being prepared, claims that the plane was carrying weapons and not prisoners of war.

The Russian military offensive on Ukrainian territory, launched on February 24, 2022, has plunged Europe into what is considered to be the most serious security crisis since the Second World War (1939-1945).
