Earth's core is slowing down and could spin upside down; understand how this affects the planet

Radical natural phenomena and events caused by climate change are scaring people about the future. Concerns have apparently grown after a group of scientists recently suggested that the rotation of the Earth's core is slowing down and could start spinning in the opposite direction.

The theory was presented in a study published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. According to the publication, the process began in 2019 and the new cycle could last up to 70 years, with the possibility of changing the length of days. However, the researchers stress that this is a structural phenomenon on Earth and not a catastrophic event.

The authors of the research used seismic records to understand the change in the rotation of the Earth's core, and claim that this process may be related to some natural disasters.

After analyzing data on the planet's inner core between the 1990s and 2020, the scientists identified a noticeable change in recent years. On the other hand, this hypothesis does not only come from these researchers.

Professor John Vidale, Dean of Earth Sciences at the College of Letters, Arts and Sciences of California Dornsife (USC Dornsife), explained in an article in Nature Geoscience that the planet has undergone a slow deceleration until it started spinning upside down in recent years. This new movement would cause major changes in the functioning of all forms of life on Earth.

The scientific community has concluded that the rotation of the core is not completely consistent, as it seemed to be slowing down constantly. Even so, experts stress that understanding the Earth's core is extremely difficult due to the impossibility of making direct observations.

"Here we analyze repeated seismic waves from the early 1990s and show that all the paths that previously showed significant temporal changes have exhibited little change over the past decade. This globally consistent pattern suggests that the differential rotation of the inner core has recently been interrupted," says the study.

Why is the Earth's core rotating backwards?

The first discovery about the workings of the Earth's inner core was made in a study conducted by seismologist Inge Lehmann in 1936. At that time, the Dane realized that this region functioned as a "solid metal ball".

On the other hand, research into variations in the speed of rotation of the core took place in the 1970s and 1980s. Then, in the early 1990s, the first seismological evidence was released.

Researchers used data from seismic waves and earthquakes to understand the interactions with the planet's inner core. Even so, there are disagreements among scientists about this theory. Some of them argue that the data is still limited due to the difficulty of gathering samples and making precise observations.