Russia says it wants to understand what kind of peace summit Zelensky wants

Russia is not rejecting outright participation in a future peace conference with Ukraine, but first wants to understand the framework of the meeting suggested this week by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

The Kremlin responded on Tuesday to Zelensky's proposal the day before that Russia should attend a second peace summit, which could probably be scheduled for November.

"The first peace summit was not a peace summit at all, so perhaps we should first understand what he means," Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov said on Tuesday in an interview with the military channel Zvezda, quoted by the Moscow Times.

Peskov was referring to the conference organized by Switzerland in the Alps in June, to which no Russian leaders were invited. At the time, this was demanded by Zelensky, who refused to sit at the table with representatives of the power that occupies part of Ukrainian territory.

Moscow criticized the lack of invitation and several countries decided not to attend the conference, including China, Russia's main diplomatic ally. Other nations from the Global South who were present did not endorse the final communiqué, dealing a blow to the ambitions of Kiev and its Western partners to present a strong global backing for Zelensky's peace plan.

Despite the absence of an invitation to Russia at the Swiss summit, the participation of Russian representatives at future meetings has never been ruled out.

Even so, it's hard to see what could bring the two countries' positions closer together in any talks. Ukraine demands an immediate Russian military withdrawal from the occupied territories, while Moscow wants recognition of the annexations of the four provinces it partially occupies.

Zelensky's statements this week come at a time when Russia is managing to make some progress on the battlefield, especially in the Donbass, which is the primary objective of the invasion that began in February 2022.