The West's "short-sighted policy" has helped Russia move closer to the "global south"

"The plans of the Western minority to isolate Russia and create a kind of cordon sanitaire around us have failed. The promoters of these initiatives themselves are forced to admit it," said Serguei Lavrov, during a speech in the Russian State Duma (lower house of parliament), quoted by the official TASS news agency.

In his speech, Lavrov considered that the West, led by the United States, had used the "Kiev regime" to secure these goals, as well as providing "a wide arsenal of hybrid warfare tools", including economic and diplomatic sanctions, which also covered the information, culture and sports sectors.

However, he stressed that the "collective hostility" of the West has also allowed "new opportunities" to emerge to direct Russia's relations in "various geographical directions", giving as an example China and Africa, which has become "one of the poles of the emerging multipolar".

Lavrov, who will be visiting Cuba, Venezuela and Brazil next week, pointed out that during his visit to Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday and Thursday - where he will be taking part in the summit of the foreign ministers of the G20 (the world's 20 largest economies) - Russia will continue to oppose "selfish goals" that have emerged in the group, including "the 'Ukrainization' of the agenda".

Still on the subject of Ukraine, Lavrov once again pointed out that Russia is ready to start negotiations, as long as its "legitimate interests" are respected, which are totally at odds with Ukrainian demands, which are committed to recovering the whole territory.

These words from the Russian Foreign Minister follow statements from other Russian sources who on Tuesday assured that Russian President Vladimir Putin's suggestion of a ceasefire in Ukraine and negotiations, following contacts last December between intermediaries, was rejected by the United States of America (USA).

An official US source denied under anonymity that there had been any formal contact and said that Washington would not get involved in negotiations that excluded Ukraine.

The Russian military offensive on Ukrainian territory, unleashed on February 24, 2022, plunged Europe into what is considered the most serious security crisis since the Second World War (1939-1945).

Ukraine's Western allies have been supplying arms to Kiev and approving successive sanctions packages against Russian interests to try to reduce Moscow's ability to finance the war effort.
