Ukraine accuses officials of embezzling funds for arms purchases

According to the Ukrainian security services (SBU), five people have been charged and one was arrested while trying to cross the Ukrainian border and faces up to 12 years in prison.

The investigation comes at a time when Kyiv is trying to crack down on corruption in a bid to speed up its accession to the European Union and NATO, one of the conditions imposed by its European partners.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was elected on an anti-corruption platform in 2019, long before Russia's full invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Both the President and his aides have presented the recent dismissals of senior officials, notably Ivan Bakanov, the former head of the State Security Service, in July 2022, as proof of his efforts to crack down on corruption.

Security officials say the current investigation dates back to August 2022, when officials signed a contract for the purchase of artillery shells worth 1.5 billion hryvnias (37 million euros) with the Lviv Arsenal arms company.

After receiving payment, the company's employees were supposed to transfer the funds to a company registered abroad, which would then deliver the ammunition.

However, the goods were never delivered and the money was sent to various accounts in Ukraine and the Balkans, according to investigators.

The Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office says that the funds have since been seized and will be returned to the country's defense budget.

Meanwhile, today Ukraine denounced a wave of Russian attacks on its infrastructure in various regions of the country and Russia announced that it had repelled further Ukrainian advances in Kharkiv and Donetsk.

Zaporijia was one of the worst affected regions, having been the scene of at least 130 Russian bombardments in the last 24 hours, according to the head of the Ukrainian regional administration, Yuri Malasko. At least 24 communities were hit by shelling in 33 drone attacks.

Another 15 communities in the Sumy region were hit by Russian shelling, according to the Ukrainian military administration in the region, in a message also published on its Telegram account. "Ninety-one explosions were recorded at regional level," according to the authorities.

Russia, for its part, said today that its forces had repelled five attacks and counter-attacks by assault groups from two brigades of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the direction of Kupiansk, near Sinkovka in the Kharkiv region, and Terniv in Donetsk.

"The group's motorized rifle units, in cooperation with artillery, repelled two attacks and three counterattacks by the assault groups of the 32nd mechanized brigade and the 103rd Ukrainian territorial defense brigade in the Sinkovka and Ternov areas. All attacks and counter-attacks were repulsed. The enemy was forced to withdraw to the south and west," military spokesman Sergei Zibinsky told Russian news agency TASS.
