"Many armies are not ready to fight Russia." Some in NATO fear they won't be able to resist an invasion beyond Ukraine

Donald Trump's entry into the US presidency could shake things up and leave Europe vulnerable

"If anyone thinks that this is only about Ukraine, they are sorely mistaken." The warning was issued by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky at the World Economic Forum in Davos.

The Ukrainian president's aim is not new: the idea is to continue to put pressure on the West, particularly the United States, to continue financial and military support for Kiev, at a time when Congress is deadlocked on approving more aid.

And if the situation is complicated by Joe Biden's management, there are fears behind the scenes that a possible election of Donald Trump will only make things worse. The former president and likely Republican Party candidate has said several times that he wants to leave NATO and stop helping Western allies militarily.

If this extends to Ukraine, it will be difficult for Kiev to resist Moscow's advances, and it is possible that it will fall sooner rather than later.

This scenario has several European countries on edge, and many of them fear that they will not be able to resist a possible Russian onslaught beyond Ukraine, especially if the United States is not available to provide support.

"We always thought there was such a threat," said Major General Veiko-Vello Pal, commander of the Estonian army, speaking to The New York Times about a possible Russian invasion.

But the problem is not just the possible absence of US aid. The official from Estonia, one of the countries of the former Soviet Union, which borders today's Russia, has only echoed what the country has been saying for a long time.

Because of its geographical location, Estonia is one of the most vulnerable countries. That's why it's also one of the countries that has contributed most to NATO, having one of the largest armies in terms of size, but it will never be enough to defend the country against a power like Russia.

The problem is, according to Veiko-Vello Palm, that many other countries don't have the capacity either. "We have made it very, very clear in the last few years that, as a military alliance, many NATO countries are not ready to conduct large-scale operations," he said.

"Simply put, many NATO armies are not ready to fight Russia," he concluded, expressing great discomfort with the situation.
