Chega's list leader in the European Elections is the former Ambassador who received 2 Sailboats, went against the Ukrainian government and revealed a "State Secret"

António Tangier Corrêa, who was secretary general of the Centrist Youth (CDS) and deputy to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Diogo Freitas do Amaral in the original AD government, was confirmed this weekend in the press as Chega's head of the list for the next European Elections.

The former ambassador is the protagonist of several controversies, with a long history of 30 years of taking risks, according to the Público newspaper, which highlights the "offer" of a sailboat, which turned out to be two (you can read the full story on Facebook - here).

According to the same newspaper, "António Ranger's" career is a catalog of "cases" that include breaking into a house and being suspended by the MFA with an unprecedented penalty in the profession - the first for an ambassador in active service abroad.

António Tangier, who followed in his father's footsteps in the diplomatic career, was suspended in 2009 for 90 days due to various irregularities found in the management of the Portuguese embassy in the Lithuanian capital, Vilnius.

But the controversies of the No. 1 of Chega às Europeias in June 2024 don't stop at situations while he was representing Portugal. More recently, and already as vice-president of André Ventura's party, he adopted a position contrary to the party leader, accusing President Zelensky's government of having responsibility for the invasion of Ukraine, using a copied message.

In February 2022, days before the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, António Tangier began by making an incorrect prediction and criticizing the "ignorant commentators" because "is there ever going to be a war?"

After that comment, he "copied" a text on Facebook accusing the Ukrainian president and justifying Russia's position. This text was posted on his page without identifying the author, later identified after the person responsible contested the copy, and then deleted from his page after it was also reported in Expresso.

Months earlier, in September 2021, Chega's vice-president revealed a conspiracy theory to the press that was later unconfirmed, announcing a "State Secret" before the elections, because according to the former ambassador, a "working group had been set up between the secret service and the Judicial Police to incriminate Chega" in an alleged link to the deniers.

In January 2023, on the second day of the 5th Chega Convention in Santarém, António Tânger Corrêa recalled his time as leader of the Centrist Youth to ask for a greater presence and dynamism from the Chega Youth:

I don't want the Chega Youth to be like the others. I wanted to see the Chega Youth, call me nostalgic or whatever you like, fighting on the streets with the MRPP and the PCP.

He was applauded by the nostalgics, which led the former ambassador to say: "In my day, it was a clean sweep".