The F-16s have arrived in Ukraine. But they're not enough

The Ukrainian forces have been waiting for these reinforcements for more than two years. But this is "not enough", warned President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Ukraine has received its first Western F-16 fighter jets, which have been awaited for more than two years, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced today, showing them to journalists and stressing that their number is "insufficient".

"We held hundreds of meetings and negotiations" with allies to obtain these planes and strengthen the country's air defense and "we often heard the words 'it's impossible' in response," said Volodymyr Zelenskyy, during a ceremony at a secret location in Ukraine, according to AFP.

"Now it's reality, reality in our sky. The F-16s are in Ukraine," he said.

Since the start of the Russian invasion in February 2022, Kiev has been begging for the delivery of F-16s in the hope of ending Russian dominance in the air and better protecting its cities and military from incessant bombardment by Moscow's forces.

Made in the United States, the planes are considered the crown jewel in the extensive list of military equipment that Ukraine has requested from allies in an attempt to repel the advance of Russian forces on its soil.

The Ukrainian President did not reveal the number of aircraft received by Kiev, merely saying that it is "insufficient", as well as the number of Ukrainian pilots trained in the West to fly them.

The delivery date and the country supplying this first batch were also not revealed.

"What is positive is that we are expecting more F-16s" and that "many of our men are being trained," Zelenskyy assured.

AFP journalists saw at least two F-16s flying over the site during the ceremony.

Behind Volodymyr Zelenskyy, two other gray F-16-like aircraft were placed on the ground, partially covered in camouflage netting and their tails emblazoned with the national coat of arms, the trident.

In mid-May, President Zelenskyy said in an interview with AFP that he needed between 120 and 130 of these aircraft to achieve parity with Russian aviation.