André Ventura confirmed the presence of two of Putin's "friends" who only visit Portugal after electoral defeats

André Ventura has confirmed the presence of Jair Bolsonaro and Matteo Salvini, Vladimir Putin's two "friends" who will only visit Portugal after electoral defeats, at a far-right summit scheduled for May 13 and 14.

Bolsonaro, who has never visited Portugal as president of Brazil, has at least 8 legal cases against him.

In July 2022, five months into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, then-president Jair Bolsonaro reaffirmed that Brazil would not join sanctions against Russia and that his relationship with the Russian leader was "exceptional... My relationship with the Russian government is not good, it's exceptional".

Matteo Salvini, leader of the Northern League, a party that lost more than half of its voters in the last elections in September 2022, risks 15 years in prison where he is accused of "kidnapping" 147 migrants rescued aboard a ship operated by the Spanish NGO Open Arms, which he denied disembarkation as part of his policy of closed ports. Italy's Deputy Prime Minister, who once again advocated an end to sanctions on Russia in September 2022, has never hidden his admiration for Vladimir Putin, to the point where in 2019 he considered him the "best statesman currently on the planet" and wore a T-shirt with the Russian President's face printed on it.

Jair Bolsonaro, the former President of Brazil, is facing several judicial investigations:

The case of the jewels offered by Saudi Arabia. Bolsonaro is said to have brought back two packages of jewelry that were not declared to the tax authorities.

Crimes of genocide against the Yanomami indigenous community. Disobedience, breach of judicial secrecy, and environmental crimes related to the life, health and safety of various indigenous communities.

Incitement to violence in the attacks in Brasilia. The Public Prosecutor's Office considers that Jair Bolsonaro shared videos on social media in which he questions the regularity of the presidential elections, which constitutes public incitement to commit a crime.

Accusations of electoral fraud. Even before the elections, Bolsonaro was already the target of an investigation due to his successive attacks on the Brazilian electoral system.

Fraud over the administration of the covid-19 vaccine. Bolsonaro's medical records indicate that the former President took a dose of the Janssen vaccine on July 19, 2021.

Use of government bodies and resources to benefit his children, who are also the subject of judicial investigations.

Spying on citizens through the Brazilian Intelligence Agency (Abin). Suspicions that FirstMile was used to monitor opponents of the Bolsonaro government.

Appropriation of weapons received on an official trip, accused of embezzlement.