Zombie viruses are waking up 50,000 years later thanks to the thawing of the Siberian permafrost

The danger is "increasingly evident": while we are paying attention to climate threats from the south, such as tropical diseases, threats may be emerging simultaneously from the thawing north.

Global health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO), are sounding the alarm about a potential new health crisis: the awakening of ancient "zombie viruses" coming from the permafrost - the layer of subsoil that is permanently frozen.

Some of these pathogens are up to 50,000 years old and have been unearthed from layers of Siberian permafrost, according to research shared this Monday in a Bloomberg report. Concerns have intensified in the post-Covid-19 phase, given the lack of immunity and treatments available for these viruses.

The main culprit for the awakening of these zombie giants is, once again, global warming, which is, as you read this article, thawing this permanent layer. Since the Arctic could be ice-free by the summers of the 2030s, the release of ancient pathogens presents a new front of risks.

Alongside greenhouse gases such as methane, dormant pathogens in the permafrost represent an underestimated danger.

Last year, according to the Financial Express, the team led by Jean-Michel Claverie, a professor at the University of Aix-Marseille who is studying these zombies, published research which revealed that multiple ancient viruses extracted from Siberian parchment were still infectious.

Danger is "increasingly evident"

The reanimation of pathogens is not just theoretical. An anthrax outbreak in Siberia in 2016, triggered by a heatwave, resulted in numerous infections and led to the deaths of thousands of reindeer and a child.

A separate study this year also managed to revive a 46,000-year-old nematode, adding another layer of concern.

According to Claverie, the danger is "increasingly evident": while we normally consider climate threats to emanate from the south, such as tropical diseases, threats may also be emerging from the thawing north.

The WHO has been monitoring unknown infectious diseases against which humans have neither immunity nor medicinal therapies to treat. The organization has included a generic "Disease X" on its list of priority pathogens that require urgent research.

Although research is becoming increasingly complicated due to geopolitical tensions and the fear of new pandemics being unleashed, it remains essential.