Moscow accuses Kyiv of wanting to open Black Sea to NATO

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky signed a decree on Wednesday on the new Maritime Security Strategy, which envisages "changes and innovations", especially in the Black Sea, and which is accompanied by a strategy with international partners.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov, commenting on the Ukrainian initiative, warned that Moscow would take measures to guarantee the country's security due to the "additional threats" posed by the presence of NATO ships in the area.

"The concentrated presence of NATO ships - and we take into account Bulgaria and Romania, which are NATO littoral states - poses additional threats to Russia, especially in the current situation," he said.

Peskov referred in particular to the "direct involvement of NATO countries in the conflict around Ukraine", according to the Spanish news agency EFE.

"It is clear that Russia will take all necessary measures to ensure its own security," he said.

Peskov also recalled that "the presence of non-Black Sea states" in those waters "is very strictly regulated by the Montreux Convention".

"Turkey is, in this case, the administrator and carries out its duties very clearly," he added, quoted by the Spanish news agency Europa Press.

Dating back to 1936, the Montreux Convention gives Turkey control of the Bosphorus and Dardanelles straits, which connect the Black and Mediterranean seas.

Merchant ships enjoy freedom of passage, but warships are subject to restrictions "which vary depending on whether or not they belong to the states bordering the Black Sea", according to the Turkish government.

Crimea's representative in the Russian parliament, Mikhail Sheremet, also accused Zelensky today of wanting to prolong the conflict with Russia, according to Russian news agency TASS.

Sheremet said that Kiev's new maritime security strategy is aimed at building up Ukrainian naval forces and ensuring the presence of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in the Black Sea.

According to the Crimean MP, if Ukraine's military pressure weakens, Zelensky will no longer be needed by the West and NATO countries will stop supporting him as Ukrainian leader.

Russia annexed the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea in 2014 and, since the February 2022 invasion, has added the Ukrainian regions of Donetsk, Lugansk, Kherson and Zaporijia to the list.