Lavrov calls on the UN to eliminate the causes of the conflict in Ukraine

The end of the confrontation between Moscow and Kiev must be accompanied by the elimination of the threat posed by the West to Russia's security, said the Foreign Affairs chief during an open debate of the Security Council convened by his delegation, which is chairing that body this month.

Lavrov insisted that both his country and the West need mutual guarantees and agreements, in a clear reference to the need to reach an agreement for the security of both.

At the same time, he considered it necessary to take into account the new geostrategic realities on the Eurasian continent, where a new, truly equal and indivisible continental security architecture is being formed.

In this context, he added, Europe risks being left behind in this objectively historic process.

"We are ready to seek a balance of interests," he said.

The global and regional balance of power must also be restored, along with redressing injustices in the global economy, the senior diplomat added.

The Russian Foreign Minister rejected the use of such coercive measures in a multipolar world which, in his opinion, should not have any monopoly on financial or monetary regulation, trade or technologies.

Regarding US policy, the head of Russian diplomacy warned that Washington is convinced that a new global war will not affect the United States, but rather its European allies.

"If this analysis forms the basis of the (Joe) Biden administration's strategy, it is a very dangerous mistake, and the Europeans should realize that they have been given a suicidal role," he added to the members of the world's highest peace body.

At the same time, he called for more attention to be paid to national minorities in order to resolve the conflict on Ukrainian territory.

"We ask all those who show a sincere interest in overcoming the crisis in Ukraine to consider in any of their proposals the fundamental issue of the rights of national minorities. Everyone, without exception," insisted the High Representative.

ro/ebr/ls
