Russia ready to negotiate with Zelensky but questions legitimacy

"This is a difficult issue. From a legal point of view, it's a problem, but from a practical point of view, we are open to achieving our goals through negotiations. Therefore, several variants are possible," said the presidential spokesman.

Zelensky's legitimacy at the head of Ukraine's presidency has been a question raised by Russia, which argues that the Ukrainian ruler's term ended on May 20.

The Russian spokesman said that in addition to the "problems of Zelensky's legitimacy", there is also "the problem of the ban on establishing any contact or negotiations with the Russian side, as this ban remains in force".

"So there is still a lot to clarify and we need to hear some explanations," Peskov said.

Following Zelensky's recent statements about his readiness to negotiate a peaceful solution to the war in Ukraine, the Russian presidential spokesman stressed that "Russia is generally open to the process of negotiations, but it is necessary to understand to what extent the Ukrainian side is prepared."

"For now, as you can see, we have heard very different statements, so far things are not very clear," he added.

On Wednesday, Peskov recalled that Russian President Vladimir Putin had stated that "Zelensky lost his legitimacy" after the end of his term, which "is a factor that can considerably hinder the peace process."

The spokesman also stressed that Russia will guarantee the defense of its interests and security in any case, whether through negotiations or arms.

"The special military operation was initiated as an extreme resort to achieve our goals," Peskov said, stressing that "any war ends with peace negotiations."

In recent days, Zelensky has reinforced the need for negotiations to end the war as soon as possible.

The Ukrainian President has recently had contacts with political representatives in favor of an immediate ceasefire, such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Republican US presidential candidate Donald Trump and Vatican Secretary of State Pietro Parolin.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba traveled to China this week to discuss potential peace talks between Ukraine and Russia.

Ukraine has relied on financial and arms aid from Western allies since Russia invaded the country on February 24, 2022.

Kiev's allies have also enacted sanctions against key sectors of the Russian economy to try to curb Moscow's ability to finance the war effort in Ukraine.