Sanctions on Russia have had little impact on the war in Ukraine, says study

"The Russian economy is currently growing strongly thanks to the defense boom," says Vasily Astrov, an expert on Russian affairs at the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw).

However, he says, "sanctions can work like a slow-acting poison," he said, referring to the conclusions of a study commissioned by the German Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action.

In 2023, a year after the war began, Russia's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 3.6%. This year, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin announced a 5% increase in the first five months of the year compared to the same period last year, with growth in industrial production, machinery and equipment and intellectual property.

"This figure is significantly higher than forecast, despite all the attempts from the outside to stop us," Mishustin said at a meeting on economic issues, quoted by the Tass news agency.

The Russia Monitor project, the result of a research cooperation carried out by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw, coordinator), the Kiel Institute of World Economics (IfW), the Leibniz Institute for Economic Research (ifo) and the Austrian Institute for Economic Research (WIFO) covers data on Russian exports and imports (including sanctioned and dual-use goods), the state budget, the production sector, domestic demand, the labor market, price developments and financial markets.

It was developed in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) and other states on Moscow with the aim of restricting its ability to wage war and increasing the political and economic costs for the country's elites.

The growth of GDP in Russia has been attributed to the increase in state spending on arms and military equipment, with wage increases and payments to the families of war victims boosting the income of many families.

The Russian military offensive on Ukrainian territory, launched on February 24, 2022, plunged Europe into what is considered the most serious security crisis since the Second World War (1939-1945).

Ukraine has been relying on financial and arms aid from the Western allies, who have also enacted sanctions against key sectors of the Russian economy in an attempt to reduce Moscow's ability to finance the war effort.

The last few months have been marked by large-scale Russian air strikes against Ukrainian cities and infrastructure, while Kyiv's forces have been targeting targets on Russian territory close to the border and on the Crimean peninsula, illegally annexed in 2014.

Now in the third year of the war, the Ukrainian armed forces are facing a shortage of soldiers, arms and ammunition, despite repeated promises of help from Western allies, which have since begun to materialize.